                                 AI in the Metaverse  Utopia or Dystopia.. with Louis Rosenberg    


            

Speaker 0: Ninety five people believed that virtual would be everywhere within five to ten years.

Speaker 1: Where you one of those believers?

Speaker 0: I was. Over the last twelve to eighteen months, the largest companies the world have have realized this

Speaker 2: is important for their consumer business.

Speaker 0: Be your planning in near future with the med as a significant part of it.

Speaker 2: You started the foundation for what we now call out augmented reality. And now you are operating with the field of artificial intelligence.

Speaker 0: Ai have access to our personal history that knows it likes, tendencies, it knows how we're most likely to be persuaded. It's reading our facial expressions, maybe even our heart rate, and blood pressure. There needs to be some gore rails who plays because Utopian vision could get distorted.

Speaker 2: Hi. I'm Nick Rosa from Accenture,

Speaker 1: and I'm Daniel K from A Xr. This

Speaker 2: So, Louis, you are one of the pioneers in a field of augmented and virtual reality. Tell us a little bit more about your career and your beginnings.

Speaker 0: So I got involved in the med over thirty years ago back at the early beginning. I started as a researcher at Nasa working on virtual reality vision systems, and so my first work was to model inter intra ocular distance or the distance between your eyes, writing software and spending a lot of time using the various vision systems, And I was immediately captivated by the potential of virtual worlds. I felt confident that was gonna change society. And so I was very excited from the start. At the same time, spending lots of time in in virtual virtual reality.

They also didn't like being cut off from the real world. I felt like the experience was amazing, but I also felt like it was isolating from my natural experiences. And so the real first thing I felt was I wish I could take the power of Vr and just splash it all over the real world, and this was back for the phrase augmented reality was in use. I pitched it to the Us air force, and I was fortunate enough that they funded me to build the first really functional augmented reality system. It was called the virtual fixtures platform.

A crazy system it required about a million dollars with the hardware. It had a vision system hanging from the ceiling. It had a big exoskeleton that that people would wear. You might have seen pictures of it. The skeleton would track your hand motions and feedback hap feedback.

And so this was a a fully functional system, meaning it was the first time people could reach out and interact with a really a mixed reality of the real world in the virtual world together where you could have a virtual object bump into a real object and and have this true augmented reality mixed reality experience. And and so that was, again, a a great, really a a great experience for me and really got me even more excited about the field, but really the most important thing to my career was that that was a a set of experiments where I've brought in all kinds of people just off the street to to experience it because I was running research studies to see if if augmented reality could enhance human performance So these people would come in they'd get into the ex exoskeleton. They would do the tests. And then and then every single one of them would get out and say, oh, like, that was amazing. This was, in nineteen ninety.

Too thirty years ago. And and so I didn't think it would take thirty years, but I did feel like reality and augmented reality would to change the worlds and so I went back to Silicon Valley, and I founded a company called Immersion Corporation, which was one of the early Z companies. And We built somewhat really the first virtual reality simulators for medical schools where doctors could train in Vr and and the company kept selling them for decades. Immersion went public in nineteen ninety nine. I think it's the oldest reality company in the world from the early days.

I founded my current company, Unanimous Ai, which is an artificial intelligence company that focuses on amplifying group intelligence in shared environments, and really focused stuck on the human side of things

Speaker 2: in the second part of our podcast when we're gonna really deep dive into this potential danger of the matter. I would like to go a little bit back and some stories about the early days, the real early days about augmented in.

Speaker 0: Reality got it. It's real start in the late eighty. I was fortunate enough to to get into a lab at Stanford called the center for design research. Which had had a handful of other researchers looking at reality, looking at tele, augmented reality didn't exist Back then, we would think of current technology is television, and people had spent decades, learning about frame rate and learning about the other basic per perception capabilities that what kind of frame rate do you need to... So television looks smooth back in the late eighties early nineties, people with asking those same questions about immersive worlds.

What kind of update rates do you need so that when you move your head, you don't get nauseous, What kind of how accurately do you have to build a model inter rock distance to get the depth perception. All of these your really basic parameters were under where research topics. Back then, between ninety two and ninety five. Virtual reality really took off in the public consciousness. And people don't really realize that.

Like, People today, at least, they don't realize that in nineteen ninety five, virtual audio on the cover a wired magazine with, with statement saying, this is the next big thing. People really believed back then. Eighty five, people believed that virtual would be everywhere within five to ten years.

Speaker 1: Well, you one of those believers?

Speaker 0: I was. When I founded my first Vr company, which was nineteen ninety three, I believed that by two thousand seven years, reality would be everywhere. And venture capitalists believe that as well in the early nineties, and it was a really half topic and then around nineteen ninety seven, it just fell off the edge of the world, and you couldn't even mention the word virtual reality to venture capitalists. And people often ask what happened and why did that happen? What happened was the Internet happened, which is an important critical technology for for virtual worlds, but the dot com boom happened where every ounce of excitement every dollar of venture capital went into just building basic flat businesses.

And and reality fell out of favor for over a decade, probably about fifteen years.

Speaker 1: This was gonna be my question to you was just sitting in there in twenty twelve. And you're hearing now about a Vr is gonna be the next biggest thing, where you sit in there thinking, Oh, no, not this again, or where you said Thinking yeah now is the time

Speaker 0: in twenty twelve and when it started to come back, and it was really around twenty fourteen that it was... That really... You started to see the same kinda of hype that we saw in may nineteen ninety five. At that time, twenty fourteen, I was working as a professor at California State University, and I teaching courses and entrepreneurship, and I was actually advising a variety of companies and I ended up advising some some student startups in the world z. I...

You know, distinctly remember saying the one thing that I learned in this space is that it things take longer than you expect to me the hype around in the early twenty tens felt okay. We're getting closer. It's probably a little overly optimistic. And and my advice to start at that time was to prepare to be an... To stain in it for the long haul because you're not gonna have a business plan that that realizes itself in three years.

So you should again, be on, a seven year plan. And my personal use at this time keeps real. This time, It... The industry is really coalesce around the concept, not just startups, not just venture capitalists, but major corporations are investing in the meta in a way where it really will happen at that level that that realizes all the excitement that people had, you know, thirty years ago. Over the last twelve to eighteen months, the really largest companies the world have...

Have realized that this is important for their consumer business. This is important for mainstream computing. They are planning their future with the meta as a significant part of it. I see there being a a virtual meta and an augmented matter. Where a virtual meta is these We fully simulated worlds, people are avatars and the augmented universe being a virtual layer over the real world And the reason I split it up in in my mind is that it's really two different industries that evolve in parallel, and they're coming from They're evolving out of existing industries.

I see the virtual meta evolving out of The gaming industry and social media industry, whereas it's... The virtual meta fully virtual worlds will evolve, really focused on socializing entertainment, shopping, gaming, in fully simulated worlds, whereas the augmented meta versus really evolving out of the mobile phone industry, evolving where the handheld phone will turn into augmented reality, eyewear wear, and and it's really about mobile media. And and it's different players, different focus, different interactions. I see both of those happening in in parallel. I in my personal view is it's actually easier to predict the augmented matter as looking at the time frame of how things evolve.

It's easier to predict A very rapid adoption of the augmented meta, whereas the fully virtual meta is a little bit harder to predict. Because it really depends on people wanting to spend significant amounts of time in fully simulated worlds

Speaker 2: This is interesting because a lot of people think that the is only virtual worlds, obviously the most first interesting aspect of the matter versus is being able to bring digital content into the real world so creating this kind of a connection between what is digital and what is real. Probably one of the most fascinating aspects this is that if you think about it right now and you're talking about the augmented matters will be the evolution of the mobile market. You think about the situation right now is that our life, without a mobile phone is way less meaningful than where we are mobile phone because we're more connected. We can do more things. We can work.

Or we can connect with our friends, so we can check the news. We have data information coming towards that. In the future, this is gonna be probably important of vital because it's gonna be also connected directly to the meaning of reality itself.

Speaker 0: Really the meta this transition from, information being stuck on this little flat window in your hand to information being placed into the world in a natural intuitive locations at the location that you want it. And so I I really do see, The augmented meta is being a human agonizing technology that will put information into the form that our per perception system was designed to perceive it. As spatial content all around this. The content should just be there. And the potential of augmented augmented reality, the augmented is is so extreme to make your world more natural, and it doesn't have the downsides of cutting you off from the real world.

In a way I like to think of the adoption path is this thing Okay. If you go back to, I think two thousand seven, everybody was using flip phones, and nobody thought they needed a smartphone and nobody thought they would ever spend a thousand dollars for a phone, and then Apple launches the iphone. Within five, six years, smartphones went from zero to completely replacing the flip phone market despite the fact that it was significantly more expensive when major major corporations launch augmented reality ai where, you could see the same exact kind of transition happening, which is first it'll be supported by by developers creating interesting content when Apple launches augmented reality the eyewear and there's interesting creative content, it will very quickly get to the point where people who don't have that eyewear will feel like they're missing out on content. And actually, I feel it'll actually feel it even more intensely than the difference p smartphone and a flip phone. Because they literally will be things in their world they can't even see.

By the early twenty thirties, we could really see an una augmented meta that is really changing society, changing how people

Speaker 2: You have been one of the pioneers years in the field of virtual reality. You started the foundation for what we now call augmented reality. And now you are operating the field of artificial intelligence. Can you tell us a little bit more about your first steps and why you got into Ai?

Speaker 0: Yep. My my Phd and my background and my interest is really in technologies that can be used to to amplify human abilities. So, my interest is really in this interface between between humans and computers and and so my interest initially in in virtual reality and augmented reality was to use this technology to allow people to to perform tasks better And for a long time, I was really focused on how to use technology to make to enhance a single individual's performance. The virtual fixtures platform that had built at the Air force was about, can I allow people to, like, to perform manual tasks with augmented reality and they could perform that task faster and better? About ten years ago, I started really thinking about not just individuals but groups of people.

And and can can we use technology to to enable groups of people to perform better? And and that's when I started look looking at artificial intelligence thing, can we use Ai to connect groups of people together better so that we can... Groups can make better decisions and better predictions and better forecasts. And that's really led me down this path. Of using Ai really in a unique way, which is to connect groups of people together and make them collectively smarter.

We we developed a technology that we call swarm ai. And we called it Because one of the things that I did ten years ago, was really thinking about. How can you make groups more intelligent. And like, many, you know, types of of technology. It's always useful to go back and look at nature?

And how does nature do it. And it turns out that nature has spent hundreds and planes a years evolving methods where large groups can actually optimize their combined intelligence. And biologists call it swarm intelligence and swarm intelligence is the reason why birds flock and fish school and b swarm. They are significantly smarter together than alone. They make much better decisions.

And so it's if... So in terms of swarm intelligence, you can think of a school of fit. A school of fish, they could be thousands of individuals. They each have a slightly different view of their world. They each have slightly different historical memories of their experiences.

They have slightly different personalities, no one's in charge. There's no fish that's in charge and yet, the school of fish can navigate the ocean and make good decisions and and be a successful species for hundreds of millions of years by working together as a system. They don't take a vote. They don't take a poll. There's...

They don't take a survey. There's... They work as a real time system pushing and pulling on each other by with little signals that allow the group to make to make really good decisions. And biologists would call them a super organism. And so when I founded Unanimous say, hi, seven years ago, And so if birds and bees and fish can get smarter in these systems, can we use Ai to allow groups of people to come together in these systems?

And we built this system called swarm. We see that groups of people making forecasts or making decisions can get thirty, forty percent more accurate when they're working together as a swarm. As this interactive system, with Ai watching their behaviors, then if they just took a vote or a poll or a survey. And an example, we did a a study with with Mit where we looked at groups of traders, financial traders, and we had them predict the price of gold, the price of oil, the S and P five hundred. And and they would do it alone or they would do it just by taking a group vote, would they would do it as a swarm.

And as a swarm as a constraint, they have to all be connected at the same time. It's a real time system, but they would log in. It would question would come up that's the price of oil in the next seven days, and then we had these groups do this every week for twenty consecutive weeks. And the groups that use that work together as a swarm were, I think, thirty percent more accurate in forecasting oil and gold in the S and P than the traditional methods.

Speaker 2: And I have a question about it immediately, which is... Does the system become more accurate with more people added to the system.

Speaker 0: So we had the exact same question first, which was how many people do you need, and I originally assumed that you would need at least fifty people, you may be a hundred people, when we looked at swarms of bees, swarms of b's. It's interesting because this a b colony has about ten thousand members. And they make these remarkable decisions. They will decide on new homes to move into and things as a swarm, but they only use about three hundred members at out of the ten thousand. So it made us think like, is probably you don't have to...

You don't have to keep adding members, at least nature suggest that. And what we found was It depends on the type of question and the type of population, but usually between thirty and sixty people is really good to get a very accurate forecast from members of the general public, we've done every year we get asked by journalists to predict the Oscars. Just using reg members of the general public as an example, we'll take in fifty movie fans and we'll predict the Oscars. And every year we'll outperform the movie critics at the New York Times and the La post and the at and variety and vanity fair because people are smart and you combine their insights they get smarter. The thing that surprised me the most Was that it...

When you have real experts, the people who are not just members of the public, trained professionals, you can get down to pretty small groups we did study with Stanford Medical school that was funded by Nsf, where we brought in groups of doctors, and we had them diagnose chest x rays as a swarm. And and so the... These doctors would either just work on their own and make a diagnosis or they would take a vote by a survey or they would log in together and as a swarm converge on a diagnosis. And so an x actually would pop up on their screen and then they would swarm and converge. And the study that we published with Stanford in the journal nature, digital medicine showed that when working together as a swarm, the doctors could reduce their diagnostic errors by over thirty percent.

And it was just four or five doctors. It wasn't thirty He wasn't fifty. He had these experts was just four or five people working together as a system. Could make significant improvement.

Speaker 1: Given your background, obviously, we're immersive technology data with virtual augmented individuality and obviously, we're discussions brave new world the meta. How do you potentially foresee the technology and convergence of artificial intelligence like the one that you're creating or work with and this world of the mess us.

Speaker 0: Artificial intelligence will be one of the most significant technologies in the meta for good and, bad, and Technologies that that I focus on are really about connecting groups of people in real time, the one constraint when you get a group of people as a swarm as they have to all be connected together at once, which immersive worlds are great for. Immersive worlds are really about real time interactions. The meta is a world where we will be have the ability to collect massive amounts of information about people, and we can talk about that in more detail, but artificial intelligence is very often used to to characterize people and profile people and it's being used in traditional Web two world to crunch lots of data and then understand things about people. I think Ai will be able to understand things about people even form more in the meta because it will we will have a world where people are are being tracked in lots of different ways. And so I think that's interesting.

I think I think we will learn about people. I also think it gets dangerous because we could start to profile people at levels that become maybe predatory. And so that's one area. The other area that Ai becomes really significant is there will be Ai controlled avatars in the med. There will be Ai controlled agents, avatars, they will be conversational and and they will be very good at what they do, with especially with the very recent surge of progress in large language models, the prospect that you could interact with a a virtual Ai controlled spokesperson and not even realize that person's not real.

Is is definitely within our reach, especially in a virtual world where everybody looks like an avatar if you were approached by an avatar looks just as real as everybody else, and it's it's powered by a large language model, it will be able to interact with you in ways that make you think it's real. And that's really interesting At the same time, it's also dangerous it's dangerous because the most likely usage of that type of Ai powered avatar is for promotional purposes. As Ai powered spokes people that are gonna engage you in promotional conversation with the goal of persuading you to buy a product or service or even worse persuading you to believe an idea that that some third party has paid to to influence you. And just like advertising in today's world in flat media, this type of advertising, the med will be targeted. And so you will be approached by an Ai powered avatar that will be custom designed to be most persuasive to you, the way it looks.

Its voice, its manner its clothing will be all be chosen based on your profile. And and it will gauge you in a conversation about a product or service or political propaganda, and it will be very persuasive. And that use of Ai, I think is very dangerous, especially because in the meta, that Ai will also have access to your facial features, your vocal inflection, maybe even some of your vital signs, blood pressure heart rate. And so we could find ourselves in a virtual future, where we're engaged by virtual spokes that are driven by Ai that have access to our personal history that knows our likes, or tendencies. It knows how we're most likely to be persuaded.

It's reading our facial expressions, maybe even our heart rate, blood pressure, the whole point of virtual reality and augmented reality is to blur the boundaries between what's authentic and what's not.

Speaker 1: I guess, feel sense of responsibility for for that area of of the growth matters given the fact that you're largely responsible for a lot of the early pioneering and early growth when these concerns probably weren't, major thing.

Speaker 0: People have been promoting the technology for a long time, have a responsibility to say, hey, this has the potential to to make this magical world, but there needs to be some guard rails in place because utopian vision could get distorted. I think for a lot of people, you can look at what happened with social media and say, hey, things don't always turn out the way you expect. Social media, It's a great concept had Utopian vision, a lot of really Utopian benefits bringing world together gave a voice to the billions of people. It had the potential to democrat society, but At the same time, there were no guard rails in place on social media, and so it is created these created Inadvertently, a system that also polarized the society and spreads misinformation and disinformation. And I think we can learn from that and say, hey, Let's think about both the good and the bad so that we don't have another Utopian technology that

Speaker 1: I was gonna say because, like, you you Robert famously, you have people like, I guess, Bill gates and, like, Mark Cuban who in the past have, like, but vocal limited, I guess, like screen time for their children to use just like mobile phones, I think in be okay couldn't let his children have a phone until they were over the age of fourteen, which, I in twenty two thousand seven So I guess that's a that's the sign of the age there. But would you let I guess, your children use virtual reality. Would you let them enter them matter us? What's your opinion on that?

Speaker 0: Two for today. One is, I think children or young people are going to use technology where other young people are, and if you restrict them, you're actually creating social problems for them. And so they don't necessarily have a choice. In some they're they're the head of the of the curve. And because right now, the people who are in the med right now, The most are pretty young people in minecraft and roadblocks, like, those are real med worlds and There's a whole generation growing up in minecraft and roadblocks.

And at the other side of it, ultimately, whether you could steer people away from using the med right now while it's in this transition, it will get to a point where people will not have a choice. People do not have a choice right now really to use a smartphone. They don't have a choice, but to use the Internet, you will be at a disadvantage. If you don't have augmented reality. You'll be a disadvantage if you can't do shopping in reality.

Speaker 2: I have a question about this. What is from your point of view? Like the top three or top five things that should happen in order to protect the consumers and the meta users in the future. And also, How do you see this implemented? Do you see this implemented on a platform level?

Do you see this implemented on country governance level? Or do city implemented, like a sort of our United nation, the you digital human rights kind of declaration.

Speaker 0: I think the way it's implemented could be or all of the above it could be platform it could be government, It could be a digital human rights. Do you think that the concerns that I have are in terms of where regulation would happen is really about putting guard rails on what on the platforms themselves.

Speaker 2: And when they're on the character rails, Do you have, like, top tree or top five being... Yeah To protect

Speaker 0: So one broad category is tracking. Right? So again, fights very nature, the meta has to know where you are. Right? Has to know where you are, your orientation, it could be tracking your gate, your posture, that has to know that stuff to in order to simulate the world around you.

It doesn't have to store that information. And limitations on... And by storage, I mean, it doesn't to store that information over time. It needs that information in order to simulate an experience in real time. As I think limitations on tracking really go to storing information over time and giving the ability to profile people.

Because again, and this is where Ai comes in If you have the ability to track these motions throughout their day after day, you could then use Ai to then predict their behaviors. You could use Ai on that motion data or to prop to actually predict health problems, putting limits on making a clear distinction between the data that's needed for real time providing a real time simulated immersive experience that is magical and educational and informative. I think that's fully possible. I think we don't have to store that information over time. So that's the input side.

The output side, Meta platforms will have the ability to take whatever information they have about you, profiles about you, and then target you with content with advertising just like in social media, But think that's really different about targeted content in the meta versus targeted content and social media is that in today's world when an advertisement pops up, It's very clear it's in advertisement. It's a it's a pop up ad. It's a video in the meta advertising will become immersive. It will go from flat content to immersive experiences. And so when advertisements in promotion and propaganda to become experiences, it could become indistinguishable from real from other real events real activities in that world.

An example that I could give of I, what I would call it, a promotional altered experience. Imagine you're walking down the street in in a virtual world, or maybe in the augmented world, and and you see a parked car you've never seen before and you you notice it and then two people are standing outside the car, having a conversation about it, and their talk the driver's telling their friend, how amazing that that this new car is and and you just... You walked past, and you might just think that was an authentic experience, and it will could subconsciously influence you and say, oh, like, people who live around here really think that this this car has these great features. And you might not realize. No.

That was injected into a world as a targeted advertisement Only you saw that experience, and they chose the color of the car, and they chose the virtual spokes people, their gender and her clothing baked all to maximize persuasion on you, and you might have no idea that. So this idea of these promotional altered experiences will happen in the meta of hers and they could be indistinguishable from authentic experiences, and that's really dangerous because it changes your view of reality. If something is a targeted promotional experience, it should look different. It should look different. Should sound different, I, the consumer, I, the user should be able to see when I see that virtual car and people talking.

That's fine. But if it looks different. Yeah. If it looks different if it just It stan looks different, and I, oh, that's promotional, I can then put it in the proper context and use my natural skepticism to say, yeah, that was placed there.

Speaker 2: I think that we could go on four hours on this topic.

Speaker 1: Said this is fascinating and I like, I'm just taking in know... Second northern knowledge.

Speaker 2: I just wanted to... Add something on top of this that's you're talking a lot about automated profiling system that can potentially, you know, be to purchase products and persuade people in on the to invest money on products. But my take on this is not just that this can happen only with automate system this could potentially happen also with actors that are real people that are going in the matter knowing something about you and doing this in real life. So it's not just a matter of fact of what is gonna be automated in the matter that needs to appear as paid for advertising. But also, there there's a...

There are some regulation that need to happen also in the terms of behaviors of real people that should be tracked, and someone should put some measures and some chaperone in place in order to protect their inhabitants from this kind of behaviors.

Speaker 0: There's really important reasons to have strict controls around identity. All that said that I do wanna point out that even though you could do this with human actors, Ai controlled avatars will ultimately be far more powerful and also cheaper to implement, and I say that because

Speaker 2: at scale.

Speaker 0: At scale, but even even just on one on one, it's powerful. Meta just announced that they're putting facial record facial tracking, expression tracking in their New. Headset. And there's a really good reason for doing that if you put facial tracking on a headset now your avatar could express human emotions. It's a human icing thing it's positive.

On the other hand, if they can use emotional analysis in real time advertising, now this Ai controlled avatar that's engaging you emotional conversation will adjust its tactics in real time based on the emotions you're expressing, and it turns out that Ai is actually better at detecting emotions potentially than humans because an Ai can actually detect what are called micro expressions that happen so quickly or so subtly that a human salesperson wouldn't recognize it, but the Ai can. I think that consumers would would appreciate if there were guard rails in place that said, hey, he can't use a motion detection in real time to to adapt advertisements. And I think the platforms would benefit because if consumers lose trust, then it hurts it hurts the whole industry, And if you put guard rails in place and people feel safe in the meta, that's good for the whole industry.

Speaker 1: Sal this we're we've just about hit our time now, and I was gonna say to Nick this Han a part to... You could have a whole conversation about this just final topic care. This has been absolutely fascinating to me, and I'm sure to our listeners and viewers the source has been very interested as well. Thank you very much for your time.

Speaker 0: Yeah. No. Thanks for having me. Was it was great. Did you know, you can catch this full episode of field of you and more by subscribing on Youtube.

Spotify, Apple Music or wherever you get your podcast to not miss another immersive technology moment. You subscribe today.


                       Developments, Investments & Experiences in the Metaverse 
                                                                  


Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta. But there's also lots of substance, development and exciting On this podcast series into the meta brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest developments and bring on the interesting mines who are building, investing in and experiencing the med. By Matthew Can, a senior equity research channel was with Bloomberg audience.

Speaker 1: And I'm Jan and Ras Friedman, you can call beyond, I'm the founder Ceo of Super social, we're a company ventured back that are building gains and experiences for the med. Starting with roblox. We're excited to service your host and guide for this journey into the universe. There's incredible content that are gonna bring to life amazing guests that are really going into unpack all the opportunities and excitement about the for businesses, developers, creators, marketers brands, than and many work.

Speaker 0: And so, Jan, the first question that I wanna ask, and I and I think I wanna ask it to every guest that we eventually bring on, but I think it's extremely important to set the stage and help define exactly what the meta is to you, to your team to your company, what is the meta? You know, what what is the meta to to super social to Jan? And and what are the key characteristics that shape the meta in your view? And, I guess, also importantly in that vein, what isn't the meta?

Speaker 1: Well, maybe I'll start with the elimination process. Right? What isn't? The universe. And and I think what the universe isn't is it's isn't a game.

It's not a website, and it's also not a place to me, the better is more of an approach or or or an experience to our life over the internet in its next evolution. And so when you... When we think about the universe is really the evolution of what the Internet can be should be in the future, large scale, virtual environments, virtual world, virtual spaces where people humans all over the world can do so much more than what we've done, over the Internet over web one wave two o. And all these experiences are going to be ever more persistent meaning it's always on. It's never stops.

It's also shared and it's open. It's of a large scale and so the dream of the is, of course, that not couple hundred people can experience a concert on robots or on Fortnite. Actually, it's millions of people who con communicating in one placing, one single point time to experience something together. And so it's going to be something that is ever more immersive, ever more social ever more expensive than anything we've known until today with regards to virtual words. And I think, you know, if you think about it like that, it not only provides opportunities to completely reimagine what virtual experiences is or human experiences online could look like it also means that there's gonna be a whole new world of possibilities of what creators can make.

And that could be individual creators, really a a fifty year old in a bedroom that can build a new type of experience or an application letter on on top of platforms. And it can be an an a multi billion dollar operation like Facebook, that decides to build, you know, its next layer of application could see application. Form, you know, med experiences. And then I think the the the other two key components and that we're excited about. Number one is obviously, meta experiences are going to be accessible through any device.

And so the the the question of what platform people are going to consume information or experiences on, is going to transform from, like, mobile console Pc to... It doesn't really matter because we're gonna be able to access. Those experiences in any device. And so I think about the basically device agnostic. And then the second piece, which is potentially, the most transforming and there's so much to one back on that point is we're going to manifest ourselves into the universe as humans and living in the universe as an avatar.

And that avatar doesn't even have to be one avatar. It could be many, many, many avatars. And you and I'm mad who can find yourself expressing yourself as individual in as individuals through the wide area of avatars that maybe fit to different type of experiences, Maybe when we wanna experience music in the developers, we're gonna use, you know, Avatar wide. And what we wanna be more of a sports bank or play sports the endeavors, we're gonna be out of our text. And so I think all these opportunities to create multiple identities entities by what single human expressing yourself in the metaphor.

This is probably one of the most transformative human behavior shares that I think we're seeing since the invention of the Internet itself.

Speaker 0: I think that's a really great point about expressing oneself digitally with with virtual accessories, virtual cosmetics. You know, that's something that's been done in gaming for a while, but it tends to be unique to a single game. But the ability to create different avatars create different outfits effectively have a closet in your virtual world for your virtual self and be able to bring that from experience to experience, that that... That's a huge opportunity, both from a from a an engagement perspective, from a revenue perspective from a branding perspective, there's so many business opportunities that tie into that that angle.

Speaker 1: And and one more one more super important point in in in my mind back to is as we kind of, you know, the open the world of the universe to to, you know, our audience and and bringing so many important and interesting speakers is that the manifest is not about gaming. It might start with gaming and gaming has popularized a lot of different concept when it come to the virtual world and gaming will continue to be an important, kind of facet of of what the is and potentially, it's key use case. Over the first several years, but ultimately, I envision us just like over the Internet. People will do commerce in new ways. They will consume entertainment new ways.

They would play games in way. They would likely learn. They're gonna be educational activities and experiences. And, of course, there's gonna be opportunities of how do we work in better. Right?

And I think one of the things that super social that we're already exploring, building over roblox is, how do we actually build the virtual words inside the platform like where we can congregate as a team. And so I think workforce and workplace the med is is another kind of transformative potential trend that we can unpack. But We're gonna dig in on all of that, and and, you know, there's so many exciting ports to tackle. But, Matthew, you you've you you've also done you know, some work on on the subject of of the and the business of the. And so, you know, for for the listeners who are joining our our, who might be newer to the of what it actually means, especially those from the financial markets or or investors, what what is really the universe from a market perspective, how big is that market?

And and what's at stake when when people need to think about the with that regard?

Speaker 0: Yeah. It's that's in a really important thing to tackle, and it's it's something that on on Bloomberg Intelligence for Bloomberg professional subscribers. That's Bi go on your that we've... That we've been writing a lot about. The way we look at the meta is we actually look at it mostly from the client platforms.

And so there's others out there like matt ball who's written a lot about the meta that include other things like networking and infrastructure. But from the client platform perspective, you know, we're looking at a market that represents almost eight hundred billion dollars by twenty twenty four. That's basically doubling versus twenty twenty. You know, that... So that includes things like the, like I mentioned, the client platforms, advertising opportunities, entertainment content, which includes games that doesn't have to only be games It includes things like live events, concerts, films.

So all of that adds up to about eight hundred billion dollars by twenty twenty four, we estimate. You know, the reason we focus on on these kind of client platforms and and and entertainment opportunities is because we think these are the likely near term opportunities for Meta platform. Forms. You started talking about enterprise, education is something that both roadblocks and many others have talked about as opportunities, but those seem kind of a bit longer term to play out. So folk...

You know, we focused on kind the near term points. And, you know, obviously, that's a huge market already. Everyone loves to talk about Pam total addressable market, having eight hundred billion dollars in front of you is already huge. And then being able to layer in enterprise communications and and and and unified communications like Zoom, you know, bringing that into a meta for the enterprise, you know, education. If you just think about Roadblocks has talk so much about education, which makes so much sense because their core user base is kids in school.

Right? So it makes total sense to try to bring education into a virtual realm, you know, education really hasn't changed and how many hundreds of years. So, you know, the those are the key opportunities that we've outlined. And again, that reports available for all Bloomberg professional subscribers on Bi go.

Speaker 1: That's awesome. And so I just feel like it's so important that as the grows as, you know, at the moment quite a a trend or or maybe a phenomenon to something that is so much bigger than that and that people can really unpack and understand the market the different categories Obviously, things also kinda of connect together anywhere from gaming to social experiences to human experiences, to commerce to games to music. There's so many categories and content verticals and now, you know, blockchain comes in, and with all these entities, which I'm sure we're gonna touch upon. One of the... One of the thing that I wanted to to dig into is kind of getting into some of the good stuff and what companies and platforms who are really leading this stand on on the members, which one are positioned and best capitalized to really build phenomenal experiences, reimagine what life into would interactive experiences and meta could look like.

And if you if we think about the as this massive you know, tsunami this huge huge wave that is coming through the shores of the entire global population. You know, some of the surfers are gonna be small. Some of the surfers are gonna be big. What's clear is that the wave is there, everyone can now see the wave. It's not a secret.

The genie is out of the bottom. Maybe And so I think the question is really, what do we what do we think about is the contenders for leaving the charge to the universe. You know, I have a... A lot of opinions about that, but I'd love to, you know, let you match kind of, you know, chime it first.

Speaker 0: Well, let's let's start with everyone's favorite, including yours because your company working on it. Directly. We can start with roadblocks. You know, I think roblox roadblocks is by far in a away. The leader at the moment and the meta.

They've been, you know, everyone thinks there's a lot of hype in this market in this industry. Roadblocks just Ipo and the meta was everywhere in their filings, and that's all they talk about, but there's You know, if you've been following roadblocks for a while, like many of us have, including you, you know that the meta isn't just hype to them. It's something that they've been building for over a decade. And they continue to invest and continue to build it day in and day out. You know, their platform is ubiquitous.

It's across devices. As you mentioned, Pc console mobile. I think it includes Vr now too, you know, it it it's across age groups just across geographies. It it's it's the textbook meta. As as as as exists today in terms of having multiple different types of experiences, the ability to express yourself, both you know, with with with your Avatar as well as developing content?

Should you go choose to go down that route? You know, it it is just the this the the pro meta out there today.

Speaker 1: Yeah. And I wanna double down on that. Right? I think you're, you're you know, you're talking about a platform. I remember when we were raising capital for super social and kind of building that narrative of of of rob roblox.

You know, I had to create sort of a story an narrative of what is rewards why robots is you need. And how do you... How do we make sure that people don't think about roblox as an app for kids and it's quite astonishing that pre aesthetics it's trading today at roughly, you know, fifty plus billion dollar market cap. It's quite astonishing that only a year a year and a half ago, majority of people in the know still refer to roblox as an app for kids, even some of the biggest media outlets. And and so I think we came such a long way in only a year to really understand that rob roblox in in in in our opinion is is really an era defining platform because it sits at a intersection of four multi billion dollar verticals.

Right? Dropbox roblox is a game engine. Meaning it can allow you to build three d game worlds that are multi multiplayer environments. Now number two, it's a publishing and distribution platform for content. Just like the Ox just like Youtube, and then it's also a social network.

More messages are sent daily by daily active users on quickbooks looks dead whatsapp. More than sixty building messages. While on after rates it's fifty building. So Rom is this massive messaging platform with a social network element. And then the fourth, it's a cloud service provider.

They have their own data centers. Right? All of these really allows developers to build experiences at a fraction of the time and the cost, also getting access to, you know, some of the most engaged audience ever in in any media outlet, with an average daily active user grow spending two and a half hours on the plaza in the day, which is quite quite quite staggering data point. And so, you know, I think pro is is definitely a contender and a key driver of what the universe already is today. But, of course, there's is other...

There other companies anywhere from. You know, the Facebook of the world revolves or my Mark Zuckerberg. You know, he's approached to Facebook essentially. He's moving from a socially media to to a member's company, and and most likely other social media, genre announced like snapchat, All of them will most likely already thinking about how do they build themselves as part of the narrative of the universe. And then, of course, there is the technology providers companies like Nav that are playing a massive role in in the med.

We'd, you know, they're gpus used they're only versed that they're created kind of as as Jensen, the ceo of of Nav nvidia, calling it kind of the med for engineers. And so it's it's it's just really exciting to see so many different companies. But I would... I'm gonna Gonna make quite a statement here, matthew. I'm sure you're gonna You guys challenge me on that, but but you know, I think that's part of their amazing these course we're gonna have in these forecast, which is I believe that the biggest success stories in the era of the universe, Many of the biggest success stories are going to be companies that either have been born now or about to be born.

Over the next couple of years. And I think that's kind of also learning from history of how the first wave of the played out. The second wave of the internet played out you know, we we all know where Aol ended up, and and and and therefore, I wouldn't be so optimistic in assuming that it's very natural that the biggest company the med gonna be Facebook. I actually back today, sir.

Speaker 0: I like to think of, in my mind, the meta is almost like a virtual shopping mall. Every store is a different companies own individual meta. There will be a Facebook meta. There will be a roadblocks meta. There will be an epic meta.

There will be all these different meta if people are building these closed platforms, and those will intersect with public platforms or decentralized private platforms. And and the the the bill... The ones that'll succeed are the ones that can build those bridges between and not just be completely closed off, but also have the connectivity to reach out. I think those are the ones are gonna be most successful. So, you know, I think that all of the big companies that are pushing into the meta today.

Roblox, you know, they have a great core audience, especially with younger younger users. You know, I think they're gonna have the hook there. I think Epic Games is a bit older in terms of their audience, and they have a really close tie to those types of players and users. I think Facebook is gonna succeed extremely well with older users, and and that's that's really the bread and butter of the core Facebook platform and You know, So I I think as you kinda look across the landscape, there's gonna be all these different kinds of meta that appeal to different people and that's kinda why I use the shopping mall because you know, maybe one store goes out of business but gets replaced by something else that starts up. You know, so that...

That's just kinda how I think about this is gonna play out and And so, yeah, I totally agree. I think that some of the most successful companies are gonna be meta native. You know, they're gonna be web three and in many cases decentralized and you know, we'll talk about the centralized platforms in a bit, But, you know, I I I think that's gonna be a big part of of the of the future. You know, I think the one the one company that I also wanna call out that I think is a is a dark horse to to really make a challenge in in what I'm calling the China verse, which is will be gonna be China's version of the med. So quick anecdote, you know, most people that, you know, if if you're new to tack if you're new to this, you may not know that China has a basically a separate internet, you know, content there is extremely restricted.

And, basically, there's two Internet in the world. This is experience in the gaming industry, you know, the gaming market in China is effectively walled off from the rest of the world. The meta will evolve probably the same way in China, the local platforms will be probably separate from the global platforms. But in China, and possibly globally with their global platform as well. I think Byte chance is gonna be a real dark course as the meta evolves you know, people may not know that Byte dance is the owner of Tiktok and they have the domestic app, which is called Doo.

They they own the short video space. They're the dominant player there. I think they have over five hundred million monthly active users now on on Du, and it doesn't even count Tiktok outside of China. So You know, they've got a massive user base. They're investing in gaming to have the content to support their meta efforts for the gaming type content.

You know, that's one that we think will be a dark horse. You know, my original dark chorus call was Facebook and then two months later, Mark Zuckerberg comes out and says the word meta fifty times in an earnings call. So that's no longer a dark chorus call, but know, so I think Byte dance has one to watch as well. And then, you know, I think one other thing that we need to talk about as well is the, you know, you mentioned that Roblox is is an engine is a is a is a is a backend end systems technology provider. You know, Epic games is a large meta company they're there as well.

But really the only neutral Switzerland if you're looking for an engine if you're looking for three d software is unity, and I think the Unity is well positioned to you know, see incremental demand outside of gaming customers as the meta really unfolds as as media companies and others look to build out their own experiences, as sports teams do it at, you know, Unity hired Peter Moore, who is formerly the Ceo of Liverpool, Fc, I'm a big liverpool fan myself. But he also used to run the competitive gaming business of electronic arts, and he was a a gaming industry executive other firms before that. He's coming in to help them build out a virtual sports business. And so you know, I think that sports is a huge opportunity. So being able to basically build a a l platform for brands, like sports teams, like, like music artists and be able to create their own, their own meta, leveraging a unity, you know, basically white label product.

That's a huge opportunity for Unity. And then, obviously, you also have, like, the other backend end systems you have cloud infrastructure. You have networking, you have telecom providers that will all benefit to some degree from the growth of the med, but you know, if we look at, I mentioned Matt Ball in the beginning. You know, he's he's been a thought leader on the med and he... He's worked with you know, my buddies at Round hill investment to launch a very successful Etf, the Meta Etf, which I just checked today just crossed a hundred million dollars of assets under management, which is very successful for them automatic Etf in in, like, basically less than two months.

So, you know, congrats to to will, Tim, Mario and and Matt and the rest of everyone involved. But, you know, in in terms of how he breaks it down, you know, he includes those other areas in their Etf in in his portfolio and, you know, and how he thinks about the meta. You know, I don't think there's a writer or, wrong answer. I think all of these companies are extremely important to the development of the meta. You know, the big question that if you're an investor looking at private companies if you're investor looking at public companies if you're just interested in the meta overall, know, if you're thinking about what companies are gonna drive the development of the med.

You know, I don't I don't think like a telecom carrier is gonna be driving the development of the med, but they're extremely important to the development of the meta

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. I definitely subscribe to that. And I think there's gonna be enabler for the universe, the technology layer anywhere from. The Internet is going to have to be faster than ever before Internet connections, Internet availability, Internet accessibility. There's still millions of millions of people.

You know, I I I think Internet is in and of itself, Internet connectivity and that's access to the Internet should almost be a human right before talking about a world where people are going to congregate in in large scale virtual environments. We're gonna need five g, six g ten. We're gonna need super fast Internet. To accommodate these millions of millions of people have coming together. And so I think everyone should have access today the Internet, and we know that that's not the case.

So and so definitely tel companies are playing a role also other being technology companies that need to make the Internet accessible and more affordable in order to, you know, really make these next generation experiences, environments, world accessible to everyone. You can't truly get much of the world to be part of the universe. If they can't access basic Internet. And and we know for sure that that's not something that is still available, although we have made incredible progress over the past twenty years, we I think not more than fifty percent of the world population can access the Internet in these in in one shape form. But ultimately, you know, if the matter is going to become the evolution of the Internet, it needs to be accessible to everyone.

And so... And when that happens, when you have, you know, almost eight billion people are able to access experiences across play, commerce, games, entertainment, education. We're really talking about a a a another human frontier for the future. And, you know, for for for us, for me, if a builder is an entrepreneur, this is really, really, really exciting. And it it really forces us to completely reimagine what are going to be key experiences that are going to delight and power expire.

You know, people young people, especially, who are reshaping the future. With what they do every day.

Speaker 0: That that's a great segue because I was about to ask for a company that's actually building experiences for the meta. These gonna be incredibly important, You know, because, you know, the same analogy is with network technologies with anything. You need the killer app to killer experience to catalyze mass adoption, you know, super social, you know, you know, I think a lot of people have interested to know exactly what Super social is doing and kinda how you're going about building experiences for the meta as well.

Speaker 1: So, you know, for us, the the... The sort of the first hypothesis was really that. On the back of of of the pandemic, you know, seeing two point five billion people who who are in school age, you know, out of school spending time at home. Being unable to go and socialize and interact with their friends, let alone study in a classroom. That kind of sort of was the first realization that Oh my god.

The world is about to change. Nothing will ever look the same again because I think what changed is human behavior. Overnight, we suddenly had to show get factor do a whole new generation that the way that they socialize. The way that they play the way that they interact big friends, the way that they learn, the way they're they're experiencing life is really in a virtual set. And I'm not saying that in real life is not going to continue to be a critical way we experience slack it is and probably even more important than before because of the pandemic.

So But I do believe that as we as Covid arrive, it kind of really accelerated to shift to virtual experiences virtual worlds across the board, And most importantly, again, those billions of young people who are basically and basically good learning for the past couple of years every day, but the way they're gonna play, the way they're gonna make friends. The way they're going to socialize is going to be primarily through virtual experiences. And I think, you know, that's kind of the biggest shift that I see in terms of where we're going over the next decade. Now as super social, what we got excited about is how do we leverage those incredible cutting edge technology and technical infrastructures, for example, roblox, but also other platforms like epic, like Unity, like, blockchain like, Microsoft, how do we take advantage of these incredible technologies and infrastructures that I've been being built over the past and fifteen years how do we take that and build a top of those platforms quite rapidly next generation, interactive experiences and virtual worlds that can inspire and empower? A whole new generation to socialize connect, play, learn and work in the universe, you know, in terms of in terms of the type of experience that we're already seeing that are exciting is, you know, collaborative games, social games, games that really empower people with ability and opportunities to creatively express themselves.

Worlds where people come together to do things together. One of the powerful things about the members is going to be the fact that you're building your relationships. And we're excited to create content and interactive experiences where people, young people, people of every age are excited to come together and play, come together and learn and cut together and and watch and watch and movie. All of those things and using our avatars as the manifestation of our personality and you know, this is kind of a a a talking point, I'm gonna reiterate it again and again that transition from the consumer of the internet to the Avatar of the universe I think that's a big shape that we're really excited about. And so we're not building any more experiences for consumers.

We're not gonna build experiences for matthew for Young. We're gonna build of experiences for lord genres, which is by Avatar in the in the Platform. And we're gonna build for the nasty Avatar And and I think building experiences for those Avatar that we don't even know who they are. We don't earn their name. We don't know their age.

We don't know where they're from. It's a whole new realm of possibilities, and it's kind of a paradigm and shift of moving from building a social application or a mobile phone. For, you know, someone that we really know who they are where they're from to building a whole new experience for an avatar that we don't know who that person is. But we know that there is a human behind it and they have motivation. They have desires they needs.

And so, you know, in summary, At super social, our ambition is to really build the most iconic experiences for the members or starting with roblox. And the type of impact we wanna make is building the next generation household brands and experiences that you know, mask people like you and me have experienced, you know, back in the day when nintendo on super mario and when Sega was supersonic. Those type of gains and experiences and brands that continued with us forever decent the additional super social to really bring those cutting edge and next generation experiences starting with the Robo roblox platform but going so much beyond that and bringing people together to connect socialize and and creating the members.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And and you talked about creating that pitch for investors, And I think that's a really strong pitch and, you know, just to to put of numbers around it to pulls some data from the Bloomberg terminal. I ran a screen earlier. It's a screen that I've run a lot lately because it's a quite a crazy tale, You know, if you look at gaming as a whole and a lot of this investment lately has been dedicated to Meta platforms. But if you look venture capital investment in in the gaming sector, we're sitting here September fourteenth.

So we're not even through the third quarter yet. We've already smashed through in, you know, the the the record ever venture capital raising year for games, which happened to be last year. Twenty twenty was an exceptional year. There was ninety eight deals done raising almost three billion dollars according to Bloomberg data, twenty twenty one has a eclipse that. We've already had a hundred and seventeen deals done so far in twenty twenty one as tracked by Bloomberg and almost four billion dollars has been raised.

So we've already raised almost a billion dollars more, and we're not even three quarters of the way through the year. Now granted twenty twenty one included huge fundraising raising rounds for epic games and in roblox privately before their Ipo, but still, you know, I I think it speaks volumes to the amount of capital that's flowing into this space. Especially going after, you know, the convergence of these of these mega themes, meta, decent, social. You know, it's no longer just who can make the next candy crush who can make the next match three game. I mean, those are great companies and they deserve investment, but investors are also looking ahead as to where, you know, social interaction and entertainment content is going and the meta, the convergence of all these trends with the meta is a is a place where a lot of that investment is is going now.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent, Matthew, I think it's a it's a great point did you know if five if I take a basketball analogy. Right? It's I think some investors, those trail leasing investors are are not looking at kind of where the the first bounce of the ball when when you should it. It's like we're... What's the what's the second balance of the ball.

And I think a lot of these investors that you're talking about it's still a small portion of the the the venture community. But But, you know, it's definitely on the rise, Those things are powerful full, meta decent, the next social, a lot of investors I've are talking about games as the next social networks. And some investors have even smaller portion are even talking now about not only the games becoming social networks by how we build social networks and actually turning them into economies, and we're gonna talk about that when we when we... When we address the blockchain element. And so, you know, as super social, again, definitely good we have been...

We have been fortunate to have a group of investors that that really believed in in the iconic could really see where where we're where we're heading with regards to meet interactive experiences and to your point just echoing what you said. Absolutely is always gonna be just like when mobile arrived and people thought the console games are gonna die, just like with mobile and console, and it's going to be the same with mobile games and the and meta experiences. They're always going to be great new mobile game companies building mastery regain for, you know, mobile phone that's not gonna disappear. Obviously, it's gonna be harder to do because there's already big contenders that are dominating the market. Obviously, there's gonna be potentially less capital allocated obligated to do expand ventures.

But those ventures will continue to come up, and that's great. The ecosystem. The total of addressable market is going to you know, continuously grow. And, you know, you've already said the Blue number which is eight hundred billion. It probably wouldn't be that crazy to assume it can even a clicks one trillion in total market, opportunity for anyone that deals on the members, And and and I think, you know, if if I was an investor today, venture investor, it's it's really the time to take that stand and really believe in this new world that we're building, either if it's they're decentralized or not, that's a separate question, but it's pretty abundantly clear that the next wave of the Internet is going to be more immersive, more social and more expensive than than ever before because of what the is going to enable us to create for, you know, for humans around the world.

Speaker 0: And the last set of companies I just wanted to mention that are exposed to the med really positively is gonna be Ip owners, you know, whether that's entertainment brands like Disney, or Fox or Comcast or it's music labels. I think one of the biggest opportunities and we've already seen it start to take off is is concerts. Unless you're like Taylor Swift or that ill of a music artist, you only make money by touring. You know, these artists will go on tour for three months They won't see their family. They'll live in a bus.

They'll play a show every other day, kills their health. You know, it kills their family, and they don't see their kids and everything. Well, you mentioned it early on, you know, when these experiences can support millions of people simultaneously, there's no reason that you can't do a virtual concert for ten million people, and Epic has had ten million people watch these virtual concerts and smaller doses. But, you know, there's no reason that a millions of people can simultaneously watch a concert and pay five dollars or whatever for it, you know, pay it... Make that a ticket gated event And all of a sudden, you're making more money than you did on an entire, you know, national tour in the United States or or continental tour in Europe.

You know? So the economics for for from music artists are just skewed so much to touring now. That's why Live Nation has been so successful even coming out of the pandemic and you know, looking at brands like U g, w g, you know, the big labels, but also live nation, you know, they're still the best at concert promotion you know, these sorts of companies along with the Ips that can do brand tie ins, whether that's, like a Disney tie in or even we've seen Gucci do really successful things with broad roblox, you know, these are all opportunities for them to capitalize on on on the meta. And if you think it, you know, think of them just talking all sorts of opportunities Gucci actually had an experience inside of robots and someone bought a virtual Gucci handbag for the equivalent of four thousand Us dollars. This is an item that you can't sell.

You... You know, it's it's... One person bought this just to have on their avatar for the equivalent of four thousand Us dollars. There's clearly an opportunity for brands to connect with different types of audiences. And so the meta is gonna be a huge way for them to do that.

Speaker 1: Matthew what a what a what a great summary of of of that point and and and I think that just to build what you've mentioned around Ip, this is such an exciting frontier for Ip owners, any artist if it's music movies any rigid piece of content. We're already starting to see as creators the type of opportunities that are coming. Across really exciting content verticals like fashion, music, sports you've mentioned earlier, you know, we... We've been fortunate do have investment from Warner and music group, You know, the third largest music company in the world and we're constantly exploring how can music really be not only reimagine, but what type of opportunities you create artists and very similar to fashion and I wouldn't I wouldn't think it's that crazy match to to assume or even bet that some of the most exciting artists in the future are actually gonna be born out of the universe. Some of them might actually be real humans, but some of them might even be, you know, conflicting you all avatars.

I'm excited about the, riot gigs music, vision they started. With complete virtual events. I'm excited about little Nasa and Travis Scott. There's so many possibilities as we start to look at how do we bring and create content in new ways, And how do we democrat further the power of creating you know, these type of content and making them accessible to, you know, millions of millions of people around the world. And, you know, being able to be in a concert with with a million people I don't think that's a concept that at the moment, a a difficult listener can actually grasp.

It's hard for me to grasp what it's going to feel like when I sit in a concert of, you know, of of a of a musician. And and together, with me in that particular virtual world is gonna be about a built million people. But this is this is where we're heading. This is the type of infrastructure that is being built. And when you think about that, it's it's just impossible not to get excited about it and as an entrepreneur ask yourself.

If this is what's gonna be available, what is the world that we want to help create to make it more exciting, more meaningful, more social, more human than ever before? And and I think there's gonna be a lot of kept people will say, oh, you know, in real life is really the way to live. And and and I think that's fair, and there's always gonna be in real life experiences and relationships. But I believe that in real life is going to feed into the members and the meta is going to make in life even more exciting than it used to be. And so building for that type of realization is is definitely priority know, for us and I'm sure for many other people.

Speaker 0: Totally agree. And, you know, I wanna, you know, we talked about moving on to this, and this is... The big rabbit hole that we're not gonna go completely down today. We're gonna touch on it and we'll come back to this area far more in depths in future episodes. But a lot of people talk today about the meta and and can't get past the impact of crypto, blockchain, N entities, decentralized platforms and how that affects the med.

But, you know, there there's a lot going on there. That's extremely interesting. I've I've seen, you know, we've seen things like Ak Infinity, which is still more a game. It's not a meta, but you know, we've seen kind of how they can reinvent game economics with N nxt at least for now. But what's your take on decentralized platform forms generally with the med and the impact of crypto blockchain, etcetera, and how you think these can...

Or they can. You know, work within kind of the walled gardens that are being built by the likes of Roblox, Facebook, epic, etcetera.

Speaker 1: I think first as as at a high level I believe that this centralization is going to be playing in an instrumental role in in the future of of many industries in the future of commerce in the future of finance in the future of of of the Internet the future of of interactive experiences, games, etcetera, etcetera. And I think that's pretty clear. With regards to the universe. Look, I think when when when I think about Crypto, you know, non fungi token, decent centralization to me it's freely about the opportunity of having open platforms where players actually own the economy. If you think today about a about apple ecosystem about through books.

You know, these are basically platform that are cl where the economies are owned by by the company by platform. And and just for, you know, some of our listeners who may not be so greatly deep the details. What this really means is that as a user any asset that you create any asset that you could consume any digital asset that you acquire or purchase inside, a platform like you may own it inside the platform, but you only own it when you're a user on that platform. If you decide you wanna take the the sort of the the accessory or the ava avatar skin that you purchase inside roblox or an epic, and you wanna take if we do, to another platform or keep it in, the decentralized wallet. You you can't do that because you are only eligible to use that inside platform.

And so I think the magic of of, in my mind of the centralization open platform, n thieves is really the opportunity to build virtual world's game experiences and interactive experiences overall. Where the economies and the digital assets are owned by the users by the players, and they get to choose where they wanna take it, and they can also traded and ultimately eternity to fiat money to actual money. I I think that inspired the whole new wave of of of a type of games like like infinity, which are, you know, kind of quality quote unquote play to earn, where you actually play the games and because you own these assets in connection iconic playing the games and sell these assets and so on and so forth. And so again, just the software could be the biggest thing about this centralization. Is the opportunity for players and users to own the digital assets to have player owned economies that to me is the big shift, the big thing.

And I believe and I vote that some of those other platforms like epic like which are, you know, very bullish on can participate in some shape or form in this wider trend and enabling an open potentially where Players can really jump around between this platform, which matthew, by the way, that has always been the promise of the aging. Using open protocols to do things together. Ultimately, the Internet took a very, very different shift with closed platform with the Apple ecosystem with the Facebook wall gardens. And so on and so forth And I think that ultimately transport evolved into the platform we see today, you know, like, epic like real square the network is still kind of the primary business model if you use some of the, some of the analog from a great thinkers are a great thinker of this states call you know, juice from Nyu, which I I I think at some point we shoot that as a guest on our on our podcast. And then I think we're moving into, air distributed platforms where, again, the user, the players, they have the dominant power here.

Taking the assets with them want to to move around. And and matthew, again, if we go back to what I've mentioned earlier today, we we is more moving from a old, an Internet consumer to a world of a med Ava avatar. As an Ava avatar, you're gonna want to bring your digital assets and accessories and skins. From one place to another. Otherwise, I think we're missing on this much, much bigger opportunity of what the managers could become.

I'm sure there's a lot of skeptical people. I know I don't know personally how this is gonna work and how it will be enabled because there's a lot to lose for those platforms. But again, this is what excites us about the decent centralization is the opportunity for, you know, player owned economies, player owned virtual world. And creating a world where there's gonna be even more opportunities to create prosperity for, you know, everyone around the world.

Speaker 0: I totally agree. I think it all comes back to what we talked about in the beginning. You know, I think the meta about expressing yourself in a digital virtual space as opposed in the real world and being able to take full ownership of that expression is what's gonna drive demand longer term. I mean, yes, there's things like Axiom Infinity that are blowing up today. That may or may not be sustainable, you know, for, you know, at the levels they're at just because of kind of, you know, the huge surge they're seeing.

But the technology that's being built that's underlying what they're doing, what others are doing, like, crucible, like, to central land, like the sandbox and others, You know, that's... Those technologies to have full ownership of your virtual self, that's gonna be something that's gonna be very powerful over the next, call it decade. Within the meta. With that, you know, I I think we've talked about some great topics. We we talked about defining the meta We talked about the key players and the key technologies.

We talked about, you know, who we think is gonna be, you know, the leaders the dark horses. We talked about distributed platforms. We talked about basically everything under the sun room a high level. This has been an excellent primer on the meta. We're looking forward to to to to doing more to having more guests come on and really take us on a deeper dive into the meta.


                                How the Metaverse will revolutionize everything with Matthew Ball



Speaker 0: Now is Map, founder of Med Etf. You have been writing and talking about the meta?

Speaker 1: So Matthew, Tell us, Can we start with what the med is not? I'm often asked these questions, why do you believe the meta is singing? And if you can't fully predict the future. That's because of the recur of technology, and the ways in which these new technologies lead to different behaviors and different experiences.

Speaker 2: Touch the evolution of the meta we talk the prediction of the that we touched, you know, data protection. We touched the Ai programmatic generated content.

Speaker 1: We underestimated how much it sophistication was needed to. The person's real, the situation looks real? The image looks real? The context is fictitious, But does that go okay wire on social, absolutely. I have a tough time imagining that anything will fully substitute for.

Speaker 3: Hello, and welcome to field of you the podcast where we expand your horizon of the meta. My name is Daniel K from Ai xr.

Speaker 2: And my name is Nick rosa from Ak accenture. And today, we have a very, very exciting guest. We have the person that literally started the movement of, deep analysis of the meta smart it. We have the person that brought some of the most important it essays about that matter. And recently published a book called, the met and how it will revolutionize everything.

Ladies and gentlemen, today, we have the real master of the matters means met. Hi, Met. How you doing?

Speaker 1: I'm great and really excited to be here today.

Speaker 2: Thank you so much for joining. So as we usually do, we always ask to our guests to start with a little bit of their origin story. We would like to understand a bit more about, your passions, your background and what to you two cover the math as you do right now.

Speaker 1: Sure. That's a fun place to start. My work experience has been pretty diversified in the two thousands I was a wildfire initial attack. It was a full time gig. I started my own business, issuing professional boating craft licenses on behalf the Canadian coast guard before shifting to private equity.

I focused primarily on the virtualization of and systems. That's kind of your early tip towards this outcome. And then I shifted to Accenture, which, of course, you know well I spent five years in the T strategy practice, really up and down telecom publishing, video game Interactive, Hollywood, and some of the hardware and Oem providers, including even in automotive. And then I shifted towards a company called the Churning group. We built bought developed and scaled many of the first digital first communities, companies like Crunchy Roll and Bar sports, Twitter Media, Pandora Sound cloud where we were majority shareholders at some point.

Then I joined Amazon where was the first global head of strategy for Amazon Studios. Then I started my own firm in twenty eighteen focus on gaming and a little known topic then at least as related to the mainstream the med. So in that period, I've developed skill sets in terms of deep simulation technologies for infrastructure and understanding of the global media environment, the technologies that it requires servicing customers and then building at one of the world's largest media business. And that was a nice convergent point for this super convergent technology. But my interest in it, like, I I would assume both of you.

Spends decades. I've always been obsessed with video games in virtual worlds with storytelling in the ways in which technology was changing both of those. And it was my experiences in twenty eighteen, really playing a lot of Fortnite spending a lot of time on the roblox platform, which led me to believe that this thirty year old term century old concept and long attempted idea was starting to unfold around us.

Speaker 2: And now you are an author. You just published, wonderful book called the the meta, and now it will revolutionize everything. And you're touring the world. How's life as an author?

Speaker 1: It's it's been fun. It's been exhausting. I think it's been extraordinary beyond just the specific field of application in the sense that, you know, at Amazon, I helped to oversee billions of dollars in programming investment I was primarily in content strategy. So what are we going to Green light? And then afterwards would return to evaluate it?

And just going through the process of, as you know, end to end content creation, marketing the key decisions on promotion, reading the reviews, owning the outcome. In a very different sense has not just been fun and thrilling, the public publicity fund, the feedbacks fun, but it's so illuminati to everything else as you're in and around this this space.

Speaker 2: Is this your First. Right?

Speaker 1: Yes. Wow. First, at least only. Well,

Speaker 2: I fun never say Never.

Speaker 3: I find it interesting Right? Because I think, well, this is, like your first, like, published book. You've been writing kind of on these topics for a very long time and publishing some really useful insights on a a quite a vast array on of different digital and and technological aspects and things as well. Right?

Speaker 1: Yeah. I started writing in twenty thirteen. I was at accenture still at at the time, At least, as public blogger, it might have been twenty twelve. And, you know, the the interesting thing about it is is you're quite right that it's pretty broad in its covered. That's a reflection of my professional expertise, but my interest, but I also think it's an linked with this field.

In my book, I go into great lengths to talk about the many different intersecting pieces of technology. The meta can't just be thought of as Xr hardware. It can't just be thought of as hardware. You have to think of it as computing processors and network chips and standards and... Excuse me.

And the rest of it, And so understanding this from multiple different angles in professional interest and professional history and personal expertise, spending a decade str through various themes as an author was pretty essential. I wrote the book over a six month period. It was the culmination of four prior years writing on that theme, but a decade of writing on other themes in and around without that, it wouldn't have been possible or certainly not as good.

Speaker 3: I mean, there's so many different areas right, that you probably could have written a book about, given your your vast of experience, and especially with, you know, your your experience within the the film and television space and and the production space. What what made you really land on meth earth being, you know, this this topic that you felt needed to to be written about.

Speaker 1: That's a fun question. I mean, look, when I started writing this book, it was two months before my Zuckerberg Ever said his intention to transform into a meta company, and that was itself four months before he renamed the company. And I think you can generally see that as a pivotal moment for it as a mass idea. But my first essay on the theme was twenty eighteen. I had another one in January of twenty twenty.

It was extraordinarily popular. It had a few million reads by the end of that year. It was still doing, you know, ten fifteen thousand a day. And so that plus my overall conviction led me to believe that it was a worthwhile personal undertaking, professional undertaking I believe that it's of such critical importance that making more publicly available the things that I had learned in the space. Which is not available to most people, which reflected large corporate conversations, R and D, I'd participated in, my startup portfolio.

That seemed like it was important and and worthwhile and I had never written a book, but I loved writing. And then, of course, it became the Mo or Danny. Last year. And so that was not predicted and has certainly been helpful while also elevating the stakes that won't publish.

Speaker 2: And what what you just said about the, deep stock of the matter is super important from my point of view because a lot of people believe that the matter versus just at surface that you can see, like, roadblocks of fortnight and In fact, many people refers to them as meta versus, which is from my point of multiverse, which is for my point of view, something that gives me, like, the shiver on my back on my spine because it's, like, saying the Internet because the matter is is, like, an infrastructure. Right? So... But there are so many layers. So there's just one meta and the meta versus an infrastructure.

But the toolbox that's, leaders can utilize in order to apply this new concept to their business and their enterprise is so vast how can from your point of view leaders inspire their teams to start envisioning opportunities with your their area of work. It can be, like networking can be, I know, processors can be a Gpu. What is the spark that they can use and they need to use with their teams.

Speaker 1: Great question. So look, I'm often asked these questions. Why do you believe the meta is so significant. And I don't love the subtitle of my book, how it will revolutionize everything? It's a little bit bombastic for my personality, but I do believe it.

And I think that there are really three ways in which you can unpack I'm... I try to be a first principle incur. And so I I don't wanna talk about a specific ins, but I'll explain at least why I find it exciting. You know, first and foremost, The Internet is one of the most important technological innovations in human history, like, truly over the thousands of years. And we are talking about a successor to.

Fundamental changes in that technology set, should excite all of us because the history tells us society changes, business changes, governments change, the products that we use, the business models that are deployed the way in which leaders and philosophies and corporations are... They're all affected by the internet. The second thing is to recognize or as part of that, we're not just talking about a revolution in idea. It's that as you know, building the meta requires deep alterations and enhancements to everything upon which the Internet is built. Tcp Ip, networking infrastructure, hardware itself.

And so if you already believe the Internet is remarkable, which it is. It's twenty percent of the global economy, and we have to up upgrade most of it in our architecture and design and prioritization, that's a huge opportunity, especially for a business. The second way to think about this is to recognize what makes that change. And I try to articulate that as an example, the real revolution in mobile was not that you suddenly had a computer in your pocket that you had any time access to the Internet as opposed to occasional access to it. Those two points are essential to what I'm gonna say, but they weren't the revolution.

The revolution was that when you did that, you structurally shifted who access to computing and networking resources, when where why and how? Billions of new people use that those two resources they solved problems that they never before imagined. And that is what led to the widespread changed. That's why all of these fields in which we believe the Internet or a personal computer sitting on your desk would not reach... It did reach.

That's exciting to me. And then the third is to talk about some of the instant pronunciations. We're seeing Xr devices used in surgery, We're seeing it now deployed into the military. We're seeing it being used to design buildings with simulation down to the atom, the sound wave. The light in.

To improve energy efficiency. We're seeing h deployed to ease the ai of video conferencing, to produce greater emotional connectivity, I really do believe that when you take those theories at the most high abstraction, the Internet, then talk about how we're changing its architecture. Then talk about what that means for who uses these things. And then just look at some of the primitive deployments. Where we're actually not even talking about the meta.

We're talking about on network. We're talking about a specific application. Right? Xr software is just running an app. Yep.

Two people. They're so remarkable that I find it incredibly inspiring.

Speaker 3: So one of the comments I get a lot when I'm speaking with people in this space. So I I come from a probably a stronger background with with virtual reality and and kind of that that area of space. One of one of the comments I get from when I speak to people, especially in our community at this point in time is that, well, that they consider themselves a a Vr company, but now going forward, they have to call themselves, meta best company. And there's always different things on different semantics and definitions and different things that people go. But do you do you think it's right for, I guess, someone who's maybe been in this space from, you know, twenty seventeen when we really start to see that that full resurgence in maybe twenty fourteen, we're oc.

As and would consider as a Vr company, and then now go into this space, mainly due to all of the the publishing in the media that's going out. They would refer to themselves as a matter best company? Do do we think that's necessarily right or wrong or what what's your take on that?

Speaker 1: The semantics don't really interrupt me. I mean, I'd certainly agree with the perspective that calling something a versus some platform in the is tax economically wrong. The former is. The the the latter would be correct. And yet, as we know, everyone uses the term meta as singular.

Yep. We may find out, my guess would be that we lose that battle. People just call roblox, a med, board will have its med. And over the long term, the whole term will go away. We'll just talk about the Internet, Maybe we say the three d Internet to differentiate ourselves generational from the Internet of the nineties through to today.

And that kind of extends to how I find people saying we're a med first company, a bit of a nuisance, but I've kind of tried to move beyond caring. It reminds me of when companies would just get a dot com in the nineties, and then all of a sudden, they're an Internet company. It's like, okay, you have a web page that doesn't make you a digital company. That's a far more fundamental cultural, financial and philosophical decision. But at the end of the day, while it's easy to be a little bit distributed by how many people are writing on this theme and how random it often seems, it's partly a reflection of the fact that the meta affects everyone.

If it is indeed a successor to the Internet and that means, yes. It sounds a little bit strange when Chevron says, we're gonna grow in the med or Pane. And yet that has to be true for it to be the next generation of the internet. And so it is in some regards both a bug and a feature. That everyone says they're now part of it.

Speaker 2: I have a question that is related to the blockchain and the centralized aspect of the matters. And I think that that's one of the topics that I would like to cover in the next few minutes with you. A lot of people believe that the blockchain technology technologies is a essential part of the creation of the matter being able to token assets, being able to port asset from one platform to the other, being able to securely try transact and affirm the ownership of those assets using this kind of secure technology. But there is a problem from my point of view and I to take you have your take on this. The fact that there are loads of companies that's for because of legacy systems because of legislation, because of policy, because the systems have been built or created in a certain way is impossible to migrate them together towards blockchain technology.

They will always remain centralized Yeah. Meta companies. What's your take? Is the meta destined to be blockchain based or centralized and centralized matter earth companies will go together for a very long time.

Speaker 1: So really fun. And the reality is we have to recognize that even on the most decentralized foundation. Centralization is a byproduct of growth and investment. The web itself is heavily decentralized. And yet our experience on the web is heavily centralized.

We all aggregated towards hotmail and then to Gmail to Facebook, into the decline of Ic q and the absolute devastation of even large programs like Msn. Even when we take a look at crypto platforms. Open has nearly ninety percent share of marketplace transactions of N entities. They don't own your account. They don't have payment information store, and they don't actually fulfill or manage the inventory.

And yet despite that and the fact that they charge more than many other marketplaces. And, of course, you can do a peer to peer transaction for free, I mean, less than network fees for gas, people use open. And now open sea is central with verification and curation, insurance seems likely. They blacklist list and they white list. And so we should understand that these are natural.

They're natural because a central effect is brand is trust is habit, is Ip. That has nothing to do with technical centralization or decent centralization. And so my underlying perspective is that no matter how strong web three tech is and how widely adopted and how widely deployed we'll see central effects, but that's separate from whether or not we see centralization versus decent centralization shift in its poll. If we were decentralized in nineteen ninety three, and we're hyper centralized now, it seems likely that we're gonna shift back towards decent centralization partly. And the question is how much, And that doesn't necessarily require full decent.

But certainly, to the extent in which one wants to say, will we see them side by side? Yes. Why? Because I cannot run a device right now, not really? That is decentralized in operations.

A multiplayer server cannot be decentralized right now, and there are good reasons to believe for the laws of physics, you can never have a decentralized server running a multi user simulation. Not only unless you want to have two or three frames per second at best. And so I do think that the world is going to have only decentralized applications, partially decentralized ones are mostly decentralized, and then entirely centralized ones, and then you'll see trade offs between the two. A little bit like saying, we all have bank accounts. It doesn't mean that we don't also have a petty cash drawer at home.

Speaker 2: Clear. Thank you for your answer. I have another question for you that is more related to the moonshot aspect of the matters. Because right now, we are all operating and and talking about this mythical creature that is the matter that is not yet here fully. I mean, we call to some people.

We can we can

Speaker 3: continue to ask. Right? Well,

Speaker 2: we can we can see that is is about to be a reality is is are a lot of money behind, and there are a lot of companies that are changing their names and they're changing their business in order to make it happen. And obviously, the the the the ball started rolling and is gonna be very difficult to to to stop this snowball from going down the mountain. My question for you is that, you know, we we we've we saw this declaration of you know, the meta that's is gonna revolutionize. I have everything and it's amazing and there a lot of companies believe in it. And we have this vision how much do you think the this vision will become really a reality?

This decentralized world where you can bring your asset from one platform to the other? Because it seems to me that... I mean, our vision of what mobile landscape was going to be in the eighties and then material the two thousand and and two thousand tens was quite different. So do you think that the controversy Indiana is gonna be substantially different from how we imagine it?

Speaker 1: Is it gonna be substantially different from how we imagine it? Yeah. Okay. Of course. It it's funny Like, you know, you were asking what it...

What's it like to be a global author and I've done so many interviews in so many different countries at done three different languages today. And everyone wants to know this answer. Right? What is life like in twenty thirty two? Or how will the change what I do, how I feel and whom I love or or see or just tell me what happens when I wake up in the morning and what I do when I get home.

Yeah. And the inability to answer that question. Is... I think inevitable. And yet folks do expect you to an answer as though it's answer.

And therefore, when you don't or you issue it, most are disappointed, and that's that's totally valid. Look, I'm I'm a little bit disappointed that that, you know, Tim sweeney or Jensen Huang can't just be like, this is the answer. I know it. I've already built it and people do it. That'd would be really fun.

Yeah. And some respond to that with okay. So it's vapor wear. And the answer is we can't know. And and here's why we can't know.

First and foremost, technology is recur. Yep. You create technology, and then that reveals or leads to new behavior. Which is then responded to with this network of other innovations where someone says that's interesting. I didn't know Nick would do that.

And so I'm gonna build a product for Nick. And good examples would be social. No one thought that billions of people wanted to share photos of their daily life. Several times per day. We now produce an estimated eight hundred times more photos in a day than the total photos produced a year in nineteen ninety nine.

You would have reasonably said. Yeah. We'll, create more photos if they're digital and you don't have finite capacity, but no one would have ever estimated that quantum. No one would have ever said the role of deep fakes in now election engineering. And so time tells us we can't fully predict it.

But I also think it's a logical answer of what I mentioned earlier, which is if each era is about transforming who accesses is computing and network working resources, when where why and how the consequences of that are so double triple quadruple triple click compounding that we're just swinging in the dark. Right? What happens when everyone can access effectively unlimited cloud based run runtime? No idea. What happens when everyone can create three d simulation as easily as they can type in whatsapp?

No clue. I don't think we can know.

Speaker 3: So, Sam Matthew, it's quite well documented that your a gamer. Right?

Speaker 1: Yes.

Speaker 3: Yeah. And I I envy you for that because I love to play video game and yet, I I absolutely love the way that you're able to balance, sometimes playing video games and taking meetings, at the same time with them. That's something that I need to employ in my life.

Speaker 2: I I don't think that he it plays games while taking meeting at the same time that I hope

Speaker 1: I oh I definitely do that. But sometimes we put the meetings inside,

Speaker 2: or, you of course.

Speaker 1: But sometimes I get away with it.

Speaker 3: Yeah. But that's that's what I mean, you know, I've been able to jump into and play a fortnite that game with someone and and actually have that meeting at the same time. My

Speaker 2: question here

Speaker 3: is is, like, I've I've read a lot like, okay. You play, you know, quite a few different two d, I guess, like, what I refer to as, like, flat screen kind of games. Obviously, they're free. But, do you do you play any, like, Vr games at all?

Speaker 1: I do. Not as often, partly because little of my social network is, you know, rich originally in them.

Speaker 3: Okay. Because this is... Well was gonna be my question as well. And wanted to jump on a little bit about the the investment in Vc side of things, but it was kind of just... You know, one of the arguments that I've always had at the moment when it comes to, you know, jumping into some of these worlds and and playing on on on, like, a Vr headset as an example is...

Sometimes I get home, and I just want to sit down on the sofa and just relax whereas a lot of vr experiences do require you to be quite active and and kind of active participation because it... It's obviously, you're interacting in in a three environment. So Just just wanted to to understand, I guess, how you as a gamer and also as someone who vividly understands, you know, the direction of the meta, how you think that may develop in in the near future to to bridge that gap between how people traditionally play video games at the moment, and may then integrate that into more aspects of what we're describing as the methodist us?

Speaker 1: Yeah. It's a good question. I mean, one of the challenges as we consider, you know, really interactive mediums overall is... They're not actually that flexible. And look, if we if we take a look at television television, has five and a half hours per day in the United States three hundred million people watching five and a half, hours of television.

Seniors watch seven and a half hours. Tv is an incredible bundle. It's a bundle of genres yes, but a function, education, news, cultural participation, relaxation. It's a bundle of different engagement styles, Lean in your phone's off. The lights are off.

You're watching game of thrones and you love it. And then it is you know, more lean back. That's just where you're watching the average thing. And then there's lean out. Right?

It's in the background. You're ironing, you're doing the dishes, you're doing homework. And then, of course, it's a bundle of many, many different forms of competition and so forth. And so this ex ability of function of purpose of intensity and of access facilitates its cultural dominance. When you take a look at gaming and interactivity, and on the one hand, it's still harder.

When you're talking about Xr, you're talking about putting on devices that isolate you from the rest of the world. And the functions are far far more limited. Now we're seeing growth there, new news is going there. Education is going there, but it's still primarily lean in intense exclusionary behavior with high skill requirements for leisure. And until we see some diversity on each of those axes, I think it's still gonna be constrained.

Speaker 2: I wanted to ask you something a little bit different. We can dive a little bit more into the philosophical aspects of the meta. One of the things that's, a lot of people sometimes don't immediately see in this revolution that the matter gonna bring is the fact that the concept itself of what we call reality in twenty years from now is gonna be completely different. Because a lot of the digital content that is now on those digital platforms that we call Meta platforms right now. Once we're gonna have this dream of the interoperability, we'll bleed down into the real world, and the matter gonna be this connecting tissue between the digital reality and the real world.

And and this promise of know, socially acceptable glasses that will, you know, augment our world and our vision, and we had digital content will paint the world with data. Will create an effect of making us think that the reality augmented, and there's a wonderful book called the reality plus. It. It's it is gonna be something that we cannot proceed from. Is that exactly, like, right now, we do not get out of our house without our mobile phone because our life is more or less meaningful.

We are not connected with people and so on. Do you think that this is gonna have an impact on on the way that we leave our actual life, the the do you think that the real life, the life that we live in the real world will be less meaningful because of it because we're gonna have all these other amazing lives and amazing possibilities of augment our world that will not wanna be able to to to disconnect from this digital world in some way.

Speaker 1: I don't. I mean, I generally One of the all thesis for the meta is it three d and immersion and presence and matter deeply to the human experience. It's more natural.

Speaker 2: Yep.

Speaker 1: For that same reason, I have a tough time imagining, that anything will fully substitute for or even ever really compete. With that real thing. Sitting across from a good friend at a bar, slapping their back is just always going to mean something. Sitting in a foot stadium with sixty thousand cheering fans. I think there will always be something about that that feels richer deeper doesn't matter the frame rate, the resolution, the hap the spatial audio in a Vr device that's just always going to be incredible.

And yet that doesn't mean we won't still close the gap in those other experiences without undermining that other aspect. I'm more interested in the ways in which we can augment for what is lost when that isn't available. I spend a lot of time in these days talking about Hello feet. Because lithography is a good example of substitute or complement, not substitute or a substitute of the tech, not the real thing. Would still be great if we could record this in person.

We can be sitting, making direct eye contact. On a couch laughing. We'd pick up queues differently. We'd be more enriched Zoom is a bad substitute for that. But pornography reaches that in an important way.

And again, I don't think it undermine the real, but where the real is not possible, these technologies are certainly bringing more of that to us.

Speaker 3: What's interesting based on, like, Nick's question there, And I'm just I'm Hoping I'm getting it right Nick. Is, I guess there's this sense that when you have a mobile phone, it's it's almost a a social odd if you do not have that phone with you when you go out. Right? So let's assume for one moment that the same may happen or will happen with augmented reality as an example where we take the these worlds, these digital worlds with us as we go out to to meet friends or to things like that. And, in, honesty, they're is a very real possibility that if you are not connected in with your augmented devices into this kind of, meta us environment that that, you know, you're you're disconnected from pretty much everything that you need to be able to to do things.

And just using that as an example is it more an extreme way. But I guess, like, just the build on next one there is is this world where where we have to be connected. On a even deeper level into the meta really exists. And an example could be, I guess where you know, I don't this is an idea but I absolutely hate, but I can actually see it becoming a a very, very real reality is when someone is wearing an augmented filter for their face or something like that. And, you know, we already have that on Instagram, and and those devices where people will post photos exclusively with a filter or Filter having that in a real time situation is very existing.

There's... It's it's not as easy to just say, just switch it off. Because you you need to be connected into this environment, because everyone else sits just just hot take on that, but Just want to just to ask your opinion on that I guess.

Speaker 1: But, I think that's... I think that that's probably right in the same way that we just know that for certain cohorts of people, For example, a video gaming consoles an important part of their ability to socialize with a specific group of friends. Now, one can ask what's wag the dog, or is the dog wag the tail in the sense of does the critical of that device and that experience reflect the organic interest of that community or are we getting them so that we can then talk to one other if you get my point. It... But it's all circular.

Society changes. When I grew up, socializing was coming home and going on an Irc, chat or a text based message board. And that's no longer a particularly popular, modern form of communication. And those that do require different devices and different experiences. At the same time, I tend to find that the arguments that that is alien or exclusionary tends to be more fleeting than we assume.

Know, if you go back to twenty twelve, there was a lot of alarm as to whether or not the use of ipads and schools would widen the income inequality gap and the educational access. Well, right now the cheapest ipad is one half the cost of the very first iphone, and that's before inflation. Right? The iphone in two thousand seven would be more than grand now and you can get an ipad for two hundred and eighty bucks. And was there a period of time in which the average person couldn't get an ipad of course?

It was una affordable. And so that is to say, society evolves, you will probably need these devices to interact with some of your friends depending on whom your friends are. And for a brief point of time, we'll probably find that these devices are too expensive for everyone to participate in. There's a also an argument that because Xr is so hard that will last longer than just the ipad hold, but it'll compress.

Speaker 2: I now would like to dive a little bit more into the data and translation of the users on the matter. And I have another question after this that is related to the use of deep learning model. In the matters. There are some concerns by many people. And one of the most vocal proponents is Luis Rosenberg that you may know.

That's, the met needs to be regulated as quickly as possible because there's the real danger that the amount of data that will be generated on this platform will be able to create a fingerprint of our behaviors and our needs So perfect that will be almost impossible for us not to be manipulated by companies that are using that amount of data to create deep learning models of sales... Digital salespeople people to sell us things and to make us believe in things and to change our mind on our political views and so on. What's your take on this? What do you think that needs to be regulated on the matters? What's urgent to be regulated on the matters from your point of view?

Speaker 1: I'm certainly a big believer in regulation and that we need to strongly or more strongly influence its development than certainly governments did during the mobile Era. I don't subscribe to the high gary perspective that most technology is for the technology is not neutral, Too many double negatives there. But, you know, if you you take a look at classical. Gary technology theory. You would say that it isn't neutral because we don't understand or appreciate the implicit hold technology has over us.

And that's what leads to both active and passive and sometimes accidental manipulation or behavioral shaping. And we certainly saw that with the social era. Right? It took us a long time. Right?

What happened fifteen years ago? We talked about the filter bubble. But the filter bubble was actually about excluded information. Then we suddenly came around to realize the real per fit was about the reinforcement of radical perspective. It was the inverse perspective on that actual chamber.

And so, look, I believe that that's important. The interesting aspect of this is I believe the meta is inevitable because all of the technologies are being solved every year computing processors become more efficient doesn't matter if Moore's law. Is over, broadband improves in latency and in coverage. But as a result, I'm far more interested not in whether or not the meta is technologically realized, but whether or not the meta as we build it is collectively prosperous and healthy. How do we achieve that?

I think that there are probably three different perspectives. Yep. Take a look at how regulators in particular un bundling, different elements of the ecosystem. Right? Apple grew over twenty years because of its remarkable integration of operating system and hardware, mac and Mac os x, iphone, and ios.

But as the digital realm has grown and matured, we realize that it's actually a bundle of many more things of hardware and offering operating system and first party software and software distribution and identity and payments and of text standards. And I think that governments most notably in the Eu are right to drive un bundling of those, so you have full technological expression and competition at each layer. A second will be on data portability. And as much as the Eu is right to say that we should be standardizing charging ports and that that's good for competition. Look, if Usb c matters, then data, import export metadata coherent matters.

And then the third is probably this question around firmer data rights to the user Data literacy is only going to go so far. We've learned that. We we also know that platforms such as Apple are able to manipulate the portrayal of those warnings. And so I wouldn't be surprised if we started to see overt legislation that just says you cannot have this data. Or you can have this data, but only in, or if you have this data, it has to be custody within national boundaries.

That sort of nuance consideration is going to be key as with overt, prohibition on the use of data for certain activities such as you know, are you... If an Xr device knows that you have kids, which it will know is it allowed to ever report that information?

Speaker 3: But do we think that that this this kind of regulation might actually backfire in a way where we're talking about obviously, really big organizations and companies here, which have the infrastructure, the money, the resource to meet the requirements of regulation, but actually, could this s start ups and new players into the market because they simply don't have the resource to meet the regulation three sundays.

Speaker 1: Will it backfire of course simple backfire? The question is, of course, will it you know, let me put it this way. Will it have side effects and unintended consequences? Will some be per absolutely? At the same time, I'm using think that the right cohesive strategy can avoid some of what you just mentioned.

So for example, if you un bundle all of the layers of competition, while ob compatibility of data. Right? This is point number one and then point number two, you are in theory preventing from isolating or suffocating competition at a given part of the stack. While making it easier for someone to access the information that you do store for that competitive problem. And if you take a look at what Microsoft is unveiled, This came from Brad Smith or Vice Chairman.

He spoke about in great detail that their long term objective is to make it so that all first party services and third party services can access the same platform data. Now, that's an odd Pan. Still gonna be harder. Doesn't mean that a small startup is gonna use it as effectively, but that's important. And then the other element is to recognize that the prohibition on certain data points does diffuse some of that as well.

Because if you are just saying use a non specific example, meta, you can't have that data. Then at least you're chipping away one point of advantage versus this new startup. Generally, generally, reducing the data that can be housed or collected or used in standardizing how third parties can use it and depriving companies of rights of retention, should produce lock, not worsening.

Speaker 2: That's a great answer. I have another question that is related partially to what I asked before. And is related to programmatic generated content using artificial intelligence. We've all seen in the last few months, images of dal, which is this open Ai system that is able to generate images using text input. Linking is full of those images.

People went crazy, and, it's it's incredible. The kind of art that can be generated and and and and photography that can be generated by the systems right now. And obviously, is not a, you know, science fiction to think that in the future, this content can be three dimensional and potentially be used in order to create programmatic worlds on demand for Meta platforms and for the users? My question for you is is the future of content creation in the matter driven by Ai system? And if so, can these be eventually tied to the population of the user needs in order to create a sort of a nirvana for the users where the user will never want to leave.

Again, a sort of a metrics kind of scenario where everything is so perfect, and everything is so amazing that the computer will always know what you need based on your dopamine need and top hits.

Speaker 1: So history suggests that we're only ever, you know, ambitious in that sort of fear. That the full predicted dopamine feedback loop of everything that you might ever want. Yeah. You know, it's a it's a bit like the drawings of the sixty saying we'd have colonized the earth the moon by now. At the same point, I think as much as we overestimate the pace of technological progress, we underestimated how much sophistication was needed to manipulate us all the same.

Right? Text in an algorithm. Missing and disinformation has proven pretty robust despite having relatively little behind it other than just a social graph. And interest graph. I'll tell you something distressing that I saw the other day, which is, you know, there are a few different systems that are being used like Dolly and Dolly does not allow you to make images of living persons, and they do not allow certain themes.

Right? The holocaust, nine eleven. But there are others that are fully open source, which I'll not name here that can be used. Instantly. You have thirty seconds to produce an image of remarkable fidelity in two d.

And what happened five days ago on nine eleven was a number of individuals who were creating fake images of real firefighters taking selfies joyful on ground zero the day of. Arguing that this was an inside job. The person's real, the situation looks real, the image looks real, the context is fictitious, But does that go haywire on social? Absolutely. And so that's actually relatively primitive, experiential.

Technologically, it's fairly sophisticated. And it's not too... It's not three d yet. And it's also not moving. That is terrifying, and it should be terrifying.

Speaker 2: Yep. And and this disconnects very well to what we were talking about before about the need of regulation of this kind of technologies. Right?

Speaker 1: Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, it it This is where we talk about the backfire? Right? What's the backfire about standardization?

Well, we don't yet know what the best standards and conventions and file formats and metadata teachers are for the meta. We can mandate them and then realize they were wrong, and now companies will never be able to afford porting over, will be have sub optimized systems, you know, like, I joke at the fact that the Gif file format is dreadful and it remains the standard. And we can't have such crappy standards in the meta. And yet, we're all moving to m mp four and that's great. And so there are consequences of this.

You s innovation, you will destroy some companies. You will prevent some companies from emerging. If you start to regulate how Ai and procedural image generation is being used, there will be adverse consequences. I personally don't have a problem saying, you know, the side effects of forcing people to get licenses for the database that they read for their Ai generative art programs. Is a good thing, saying that you can't use real persons.

It's probably a good thing, limiting you're right for usage, probably a good thing. Like, those barriers seem intuitive to me in much the same way. It's not hard to drive a get a driver's license, but you do need one, and there are consequences for using one responsibly.

Speaker 3: So tapping into the experience that you've been building kind of over over these many years. And, obviously, insight into us. One of the things that know that you you align on which really goes hand in hand a fork process that I've I've had. And I always have to bang on about with people, which is about when we're talking about bringing things into the fold of of meta, we need to be not just... I, I guess creating gimmicks.

So not just creating what we can replicate within the real world, directly one to one towards this technology. Right. And I know, but analogy you you've given before was, about how how, for example, online date insights, you know, you've spend a long, very long time filling out contact information on there and to try and find your matches versus is the mobile ones, like like Tinder is an example where you just spend three seconds a swipe, and that's a differentiation between the the the technology stacks there. So I'm a I'm a startup up or I'm a a a a founder in in this space, and I'm coming to to pitch you a an idea or a company that centers around methodist. What do I have to say to you to make you say, I'm in like, straight away.

Speaker 1: Sure. So there's a few different ways to take this. Look, I think what you're relating to, which is this online dating example really brings back to point something that was discussed earlier that that I know Nick believes, which is If you can't fully predict the future, that's because of the recur of technology, and the ways in which these new technologies lead to different behaviors and different experiences, which we can't currently envision. And the other example that I use is that if you take a look at what was progressive thinking about publishing in the late nineties, it was that you have a printer at home that prints out the newspaper every morning. And if you were radical, you'd say, yeah.

Have but it's personalized and what does personalized mean there? Well, if you don't read the sports section, you don't get the sports section. They say paper and ink. You don't like business. You don't get those sections.

That was radical. And yet, the future, of course, was a version of the New york Times that had no fixed edition. Yes. There's a daily New York Times, but most people don't experience it that way. The articles are indefinitely updated.

And actually, what was the future of news? The un unlabeled newspaper in a news field algorithm recommended. And so the first thing that I look for from entrepreneurs is where they're playing with more feces on the area of dimension, Not there's no longer distribution. We're printing at home, not we're skipping the sections they don't want. It's about saying, distribution is no longer the problem.

Content is no longer fixed in time. How does that change the product of news? Well, you can now date from anywhere on your mobile device. Well, if you're standing on line board, why wouldn't you date? Well, you can't stand in line dating and fill out a three hundred question survey, It's not the appropriate way, but you can swipe a bunch.

Times. And so I look for the founders who are playing with more dimensions in a red productive way, assuming the world is going to be more different than it is the same or just plainly reproduced. But my favorite type of entrepreneur is really... Those who have spent fifteen years trying to solve these problems within a large company, not because they're jade, but that can be good too. But because they basically spent fifteen years building up the interpersonal network for hiring, and basically, spending millions of dollars on corporate R and D to figure out what doesn't doesn't work.

And that company in their job history is effectively on the table for free. And therefore, they say, I still wanna solve this problem, they instinctively need to solve this problem. I know who to hire to do it. And I know the first three things you don't try to do.

Speaker 3: That makes a lot of sense. I think that, you know, like, there's a lot of founders and start up kind of people out there that, tend to to to jump into this space or try to think that. Okay, just because they have a brilliant kind mess us idea or something something like that, that it's instantly gonna get picked up. What what do you also think about? I mean, the one thing I always hear investors always say is demonstration of traction.

Where... Which can be particularly hard in this space when you're relying on other companies and other kind of hardware and things like that, and it's still quite early days. So so what's your, your know, view on that?

Speaker 1: Sorry on the on the hardware front, but we're about... No.

Speaker 3: Just like, on on the traction side of things.

Speaker 1: You know, I mean, look... One of the fun things about being an investor in the space is you need evidence of product market fit, and yet you also assume that the entire world's going to get blown open. And you have to discern those two things can sometimes be delayed, fit with what a cap can be? Let me give you an example because I just spoken buzz words. Right?

Like, Ro roblox released in two thousand and six. No one cared about it for twelve years. No one really heard about it until twenty twenty. The curve of that company's engagement is linear, but it's not steep for a decade. And you could just as easily say this thing is topping out, as you can say, it's just maturing slowly.

And the answer was a mixture of technological improvements of the product, but also technological improvements of the devices and also about generational change of new young people, Gen z and Gen alpha, in particular. And so you can just just easily see non product market fit, stalled product market fit clear, deferred momentum. And that's a thesis game. That's what makes this hard. That's where you see asymmetric bets or more importantly what I call, like, thesis arbitrage?

It's just... Do you believe in the in of a specific future more than everyone else? And therefore, will you accept valuation, take a bet weight longer than others. And in the case of Roblox, I would argue that half of what it was was their patience and half of it was Apple coming out with the ipad. And that is to some extent what we're talking about with Xr.

At the same time, there's the reverse case. These are companies, and I would argue some of the major meta style dating plan forms are an example of this, which is they've stalled out because they were not as big as they imagined. The rei imagination of a dating category. Let's just have avatars and play mobile games was not the right expression. It was your New York times but printed at home.

What if tinder button three d, not deeply thought out enough. But I could be wrong. It could just be on that horizontal part of the roblox screw.

Speaker 2: Matt, thank you so much for being with us. Has been an absolute pleasure and Honor being having you on our podcast. I just wanted to remind to all of our listeners that there's your book that is out is called, the and how it will revolutionize everything. Sorry. I'll say it again, the math and how it will revolutionize everything.

Mathieu you. Thank you again for finding some time in your very busy schedule too talk You.

Speaker 0: I do like to date the modern era of Vr to when I was putting duct tape and hot glue on Palmer Luck prototype rift for e three in two thousand and twelve.

Speaker 1: Did you know you can catch this full episode of field of view, and more by subscribing on Youtube. Spotify, Apple Music or wherever you get your podcasts to not miss another immersive technology moment. Subscribe today.

                              
 
                               Metaverse - beyond the buzzword


Speaker 0: Hello. I'm benedict do C.

Speaker 1: And I'm Tony Ka brown.

Speaker 0: Today? Today...

Speaker 1: Not med.

Speaker 0: You want to talk to about Med, Med. Whoever. So.

Speaker 1: You wrote a piece about it, which I actually really liked. I say that as if I don't like all the other pieces.

Speaker 0: Well thank you.

Speaker 1: But I specifically liked... Actually, let's let's take it set back. Why did you all of a son want to talk right about meta. We've been staying away from this topic for a while. So what prompted that?

Speaker 0: I don't know. I actually sort of write two things about meta one of which I'd had in my my drafts for about two years, and one of which was was a lot more a lot more recent. And there's a lot of sort of different strands to put on because there's Ar and Vr, but there's also N t's. And they're digital transformation and e commerce and all sorts of kind of different threads floating around in different ways try and talk about them or link them together or or try and understand what they are. And so, you know, well where would good place to stop you, what does meta mean?

Well, meta kind of means several things. So one layer is people often try and create like, well, what's a sense to think that ties all of these things together. Yeah. And that might be sort of an observation. You know, I did a presentation this last time last year, or I said it feels like there's here's a way of thinking about a category of stuff, which is that there's a huge amount of un unbiased.

Going on. Mh. And cha o'reilly, thing and I think two thousand five where he said so this is a there's a sort of a web two point zero thing happening going and here all the things that I see is is kind of common thread across lots and lots of companies, and I'm gonna call this web two point o and say, well, here's a strand. When those things work, they really kind of capture people's sense of oh, yes. This is like a common set of theme.

Of how it's happened of what's happening. And sometimes, it kind of crystallize that, and, you know, that kind of aligns what people are trying to build, and that people will kind of pull an eye. That's of what all of these ideas are floating around again to come towards and what they're were gonna mean and what we're were gonna try and build. Sometimes said it work. Or sometimes the thing that they're describing doesn't really happen or happens in a kind of a different way.

And so, you know, that... That's what gig economy means. And that's what Internet things means. And sometimes those that terminology is very specific and narrows. Sometimes it's kind of super vegan hand wavy.

And, you know, we're particularly in a moment now where smartphones have happened and happened quite a long time ago. Sometimes and there's lots of different things happening, and one of them are the... None of them is the thing. Of course, in unless crypto. If you're in crypto, then you know the crypto is a thing nothing else is worth bothering with.

But for everyone else, like crypto a saying, there's lots of other things and what is... Will one of them be the one that really happens horse or what. And what will what what will be the kind of the key drivers that everything is kind of pulled along by in the next ten years. So that's sort of the the why buzz works and what are the buzz works? And why is this more than just bullshit if we if I can say that on this this podcast?

And and the answer is well sometimes it is, but, you know, actually there's value in trying to kind of grasp what what is all of this stuff and how is it changing?

Speaker 1: And I like the encapsulation piece just because I saw this sentence that stuck with me of this, you know, It's... What is it? Meta versus is like the text hottest buzz word right now with companies pouring millions of dollars into its development, and I was, oh, interesting. What's that it's, like, it's not... We're not developing the meta, the meta surely is inc so many other things.

Yes. So I I think that's why I liked your piece because it pulled that a part of... The meta isn't just one thing surely. We've passed that point. Or is it?

So maybe...

Speaker 0: Well, so maybe two things. To say here. And the first is, yeah, what is it that people mean when they say the us? I don't think I can give a definitive arm answer to that because in a sense, it's so vague and it's so up for grabs and people are trying to grab it, but it's sort of some combination of number one Ar and the Vr will merge with games. Merge with the real world.

Games will so to speak breakout out of games and games historically have been big and important, but not universal. And mean, more people use Snapchat that more people use Snapchat then have a games console. And so so true. You go sector personally I think for for out has four hundred million Da, and there's maybe a hundred and fifty million people, the games console. So, you know, game full breakout become universal.

And that's something to do with Fortnite and roadblocks and popular culture and creativity and people making their own games and these becoming long term franchises, And that will be merged with the Rna, and, you know, things like Pokemon go were very, very, very early of what a some of that might mean. And so if you have this world of, you know, I'm wearing the pair of glasses and stuff in the world, and some of that's a game. And some of those are objects. And then that, of course, can hook into the n of tea frenzy because they you have digital goods that you can buy and sell, and there's obviously a lot of other stuff happening in N nxt. So some of which has nothing to do with goods or buying or selling and is...

And some of it is, of course, bullshit, and, you know, scams and create and and and and and and ramping and inside the trading all kinds of stuff, but some of it is real. And so I wear a pair of glasses, and I look at you and you're wearing a cool new animation that's the latest sync from Rihanna that you bought as an N nxt or you bought from some artist that you started following five years ago. So you got exclusive access to the that drop and that you're trading it. Yeah. And so games, pop culture, Ar, vr, Entities, t goods, create economy, all of that sort of...

It's a about like a massive super buzz words. And that's cemented us if that meta us is any such thing. And there's probably more stuff in there as well. So then you've got Microsoft talking about the enterprise meta, which is just hilarious, Like, surely, only Ibm allowed to build the of us. And that's one answer.

And then you could pick this up and say, well, yes, but Games haven't broken out yet. And Ar doesn't exist yet. And then apis are still like an incredibly small thing actually, and blah blah blah blah blah. But I think there's sort of two interesting strands there. One of them is why this is bullshit and the other is why this isn't bullshit.

The why this is bullshit argument is that this sounds a lot like people talking about the information super highway in the early nineties. And so you get a whiteboard and you would say normal consumers have computers now, and they'll be broadband networks and color, and people will share pictures and maybe they'll be digital cameras. And there might be connected information services, and maybe you can have these newspapers sent to you over your broadband network, and maybe Pcs will go away and we'll we'll be doing this on Tvs, and it will be like a rich interactive multimedia experience. But remember words like interactive and multimedia, You have to be quite old on to have heard those words.

Speaker 1: I remember Cdi, Cd Rom Interactive.

Speaker 0: Yeah Oh, yeah Exactly interactive Cd Rom. Well, this was like this brief brief moment before which is again, well, what would rich media look like on a computer, and how would that... How would you do that? And, of course, information super highway was there was one of them, and it was going to be built by about ten big companies, you know, like British Telecom and At and T and Disney and news and Bell labs and New york Times would all get together and make the information super highway or it would be a bit like cable Tv. In that it would be kind of centrally controlled and programmed.

And if you want to... And and somebody's idea for the cool thing for the young people would be like community seven subs section b. And, of course that isn't what happened at all because the Internet created this the crucial part of the internet is permission less innovation. That suddenly anybody could publish anything. And so that whole idea of central control exploded, and now you hear people Facebook's saying where we're going to build the meta That's like sitting down in nineteen ninety four and saying well now, we're gonna build the web.

You know, it's like News corp. It's like News corporation in ninety ninety four saying, oh, well, what we're gonna do is we're gonna build the web, but that's not how it works. Now it's really not. I mean, a story about Steve Jobs and Craig Mccoy, Craig recorders as a pioneer mobile phones in America in the nineties talking about the Internet and Craig says we should buy it. Which was under I like he was an incredibly clever successful man who will not understand a huge amount about technology.

We're not... Just so you understand like, that was not a obviously stupid thing to say.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah.

Speaker 0: And it's just same now We say, well we'll we're gonna to build the universe. I I don't think that's how technology works anymore. I don't think anyone can build there's gonna be the anything. And I certainly don't think that you can build it. So that's the bullshit strand.

Speaker 1: So wait. Okay. But if you're not, and this might be answered in that you're not so strand. If you're not building it, how does it come together? And is it just all of these other pieces coming together, making it possible and when my head also goes that I think we can't overlook the fact that the context feels right right now with all of us Post pandemic, remote working, spending way more time or so it feels like online that if this moment feels right for the meta to, you know, to be actual, an actual reality or something that's happening.

So

Speaker 0: let's talk about culture and then talk about how something might get built.

Speaker 1: Okay. I love that.

Speaker 0: Maybe it may. Order. Because I think the not bullshit thing is the culture thing, which is the idea that it exists you know, any meaningful form. I mean, at the moment, somebody's... You get a whiteboard and you write vr, social, crypto, place, t goods create economy and you draw a box around this in a pop box you write meta of us.

Like, okay. But that doesn't mean it exists or you can buy it or invest in it. It's just that a way of thinking about a whole bunch of stuff that's already out there, some of which exist some of which doesn't like, ey doesn't really exist yet. You know, On smartphones. Yes, Glasses is no.

Some of the success, some of it doesn't. There's there big questions about it, you know, we talked about Vr well, vr work, maybe, but it is like, you know, sitting down in nineteen ninety three and getting a box. A whiteboard and writing broadband. Picture sharing. Messaging, computers, interactive multimedia services and drawing a walkthrough around it.

I, yes. But all of that stuff will... Some of that stuff will happen, but not like that. But what will happen is like, that sense of software continuing to break out a software into pop culture or The more that this stuff moves and becomes like a universal basic normal part of our lives, the more that we take ownership of it. I mean, the stat I always like here is online dating that two thousand seventeen, forty percent of all new relationships in the Usa started online.

And so like four zero percent. So this stuff has gone from being geek key and computer, and you have to be computer literate to being, like a normal part of paper for on life, and we're only of, like, a small part of the way through what a smartphone culture, what does internet culture mean. And people who write about Internet culture mostly right about Geek geek use the Internet, not like, no. It's just everybody now. And so I think that sense that we're only very, very early in what it means that all of us have a computer.

It's a bit like, you know, car culture. You know, what happens once everyone has a car, and that's suburb and drive thru and, you know, parking. You know, parking was in fifties meant, you know, teenage age couples were going and

Speaker 1: out.

Speaker 0: And and, yes. And when they park, then they would do other things, but it was called parking. And, of course, you can't you can't do that without car, Like, what do you do where you go? And so all the things in culture that change when everyone has a car or access to a car, we don't have any real... We haven't finished that with smart just and we won't it.

Know what that will be for another twenty years. And so the the non bullshit part of meta is, you know, a wear pair of glasses, and I see the cool thing cultural thing that you've done. Whatever that is or whatever that might be, the cool cultural stuff you do, and that is some of awful that is, and it's some of Instagram and Tiktok r, and some of what's snapchat is, and some of our Roadblocks is is that cool cultural thing you can do that isn't about software. It just happens to be done with software.

Speaker 1: And look, that's the results that that results in Buzz words, Buzz words do describe these cultural and social situations and moments that are happening. They don't come out of nowhere. That's what I always. Know people some... A lot of people try and push the buzz words, but they are representation.

Of this.

Speaker 0: And you get... You know, this is what gets you to phrases like punk. I mean, punk exists before it was called punk and you know, not that I'm a a great cultural historian. But you know, there are these the social phenomena happen and reflect how people wanna feel, and, they get given labels, and sometimes the labels stick and sometimes they don't... And sometimes someone creates a label and that turns out not really to be a thing at all.

Speaker 1: And They have their have of spoke about as we? Yeah Yeah.

Speaker 0: And that's sort of what's happening here. I think the other side of this is how does that get built And this is partly a meta us conversation, but it's also I think a kind of a fascinating crypto conversation because You know, I think there's an enormous amount of bullshit said promoting crypto an enormous amount of bullshit said criticizing crypto And the bullshit, you know, the bad way to criticize crypto is to say, here are all these amazing complex rooms and all these different layers and it's all incredibly complicated and you have to understand forty five different things. Mh. Before you can do anything. And, you know, I remember getting on the Internet in the mid nineties.

And, you know, until like, windows ninety five, or maybe even three point. But, you know, windows didn't have Tcp Ip. So you buy a modem and then you'd need to get you to get a floppy test to install the software that would just allow it to access the Internet, not the web, just the Internet. And then if you wanted to have a website. I mean, maybe this is even more kind of fruitful analogy.

You imagine, if you want it to have your own website in like nineteen ninety six. What would you do? Well, either you install a web server on your Pc. And a lot of people thought that was how it worked like a web browser it would also be a web server. And it would also be a web editor, so would load a web on your...

In your web browser and you could edit it. And this is how Tim Has Lee built the original web browser. So the idea that this was content that you would consume and read, but as opposed to documents he would be editing. Was not at all clear and say Microsoft built a Web browser into word in the mid nineties for this reason, late nineties for this reason. You would be editing Html was like editing word documents.

Then people didn't realize it with morn was publishing. And So then. But obviously, if you don't have an ethernet connection at home, you can't run a web server from your Pc because you'd have to leave the phone line on all the time because you didn't know broadband didn't exist. So you're gonna need space on the server that is connected to the Internet, which means a server, which means you're gonna need a unique account and a log to that server with a home directory, you're gonna need to connect to it via Tel net and configure the permissions for this folder. And then you're going to need to write Html files probably in a text editor and upload them one by one using Ftp.

Speaker 1: This is a great segment for people who before are, the good old days.

Speaker 0: Yeah. And if you want, you know, your own domain name. I mean, domain names aren't easy now. But we saw what happened to Facebook last week. Alright.

Domain names are like this kind of dark connotation. You wanna send an email from your own domain. You're gonna need to know about Mx records. And they're going to be need to be running your an email server. There was no Gmail.

I mean, hotmail people's minds on that basis. And so to look at Crypto and say, well there's all these acronyms in it's complicated. Like, well, yes, But if it's useful, people will build solve all of that. That will get that is solved bowl that can get abstract and simplified. The interesting thing is, of course, he abstract and the simplifying me to get more centralized.

Almost inherently. Talk a

Speaker 1: bit more about that.

Speaker 0: Well, either you have fifty different apps and you need to use all of them or there's one app, then it's says one app, then it's not decentralized or it's sent... Or it's decentralized in a different kind of a way anyway. But no, the thing I was sort of thinking about in that context was it's not just the complexity is just the lack of clarity and what all the components would be. So it was not remotely obvious that it would only be webb. So there was a, and then there was a go, which was a sort of pro web that didn't work as well.

Got absorbed into websites and then disappeared. And then there was Ftp and email and use and And then lots of people trying to create their own parallel networks, so with things like Point cost, which almost got bought for over half a billion dollars and fucked it up and disappeared. And meanwhile, of course, you have comp serve and Aol as a sort of parallel private... And Microsoft network, which is these parallel private. Networks that happened have a little a little port that you could go out onto the Internet from their own sealed bots.

And it was not clear for quite a while that the where it was only going to be the web and email. It was weird like, you think about this now, but, like, I mean I talk to somebody people who are working on a wallet application that lets you at. That lets you send a message to somebody who owns another. Is it another bit crypto wallet. Like, we understand without questioning that if I go to a web, my web browser has a reload button, and a forward and a back, button, but it doesn't have a message the owner of this website button.

That's not like inherent in how the web works. They might put an email address on that button but that's a completely depth for different technology. In the same way you can't edit the web and like, and about. Remember track bags. So links are one way.

So I can't tell who's linked to my web page. I mean, I could use Google and maybe try and work it out and Look at the server logs, but like it's not like a two way system. It's not inherent in links that the links show up on my website when someone links to me. And that was also a way that people thought that the system should get built. And so, like, all of this stuff coalesce through experimentation, trial and error network effects, people scrambling each over over each other People trying to build stuff that was useful.

Mark had recent added photos, embedded photographs to the web and people were really angry, Mike Tim Be was angry with him. That you he was doing that.

Speaker 1: What was the argument for why Or? Like...

Speaker 0: You should have to ask Mark. But no, bit big because you were... But And, you know, this whole sense now that it was all obvious. And of course, that was how it worked. And and we need to decentralized it all Well, there's there's different strategies you can take it because one of them is a foolish of thinking you can just decide how it's all gonna work and saying it's going to be the web.

The other is as I look at crypto now, like, I have, you know, I'm not if by any means a crypto expert but, you know, it is clearly there's forty five different things that might happen. And people are deaf are trying to build both horizontal vertically, like more and more layers. But also horizontally, what are the applications is is the the wallet in some form sort of an analog of a browser in that this is your device that your your your primitive, Your building block your home that connects to other services maybe. Maybe not, Maybe there'll be other layers of distraction on top. Will it be centralized, decentralized?

Like, what will be the forces that will pull it into one user experience instead of lots of user experiences? Do you need to do that for people to be able to understand what the fuck to do. You know, you know, what's the difference between saying it's too complicated because there's four hundred things and that will get fixed and saying the web is too centralized and we want it decentralized well, this decentralized me now you've gotta learn four hundred things. And, like, I don't... I'm sure people have opinions about all of these that are may be more informed than mine.

But the kind of the point is we like all of this stuff is still wide open.

Speaker 1: We just don't know.

Speaker 0: And but that sense of, like, complexity, like, the stuff that gets the complexity that gets fixed or rather that gets abstract, so you don't need to know you know, when you put pictures on your Instagram page, you do not need to know how it's doing that. The irony, of course is, you know, in many ways, Our Internet experience it's already massively decentralized because most of it isn't happening in the browser anymore. It's it's happening in Safari. It's happening in Instagram and Whatsapp and Twitter and Telegram and signal and those are all different things. And you don't need to know if they're using a http or not.

I mean, who cares so using Ip, who cares well be protocol are. He's which is... How I could talk about this all day. But the other fascinating thing just as I make that point is how You know, you can look at ios and say this is very, very closed. But there's a minute there's a million apps on that.

And you, you know, you can look at Windows and say it's closed, but it was open to developers. That that's why they're all those apps and it was open to Oem. So that's why there were millions of Pcs. You so it's closed on some levels and open others. Ios is closed to two Oems and open developers, but not as open as Windows or Mac.

But that comes with benefits to use it's in that you can install an app and trust the app. And so those sort of, you know, the we four different dimensions of what's the complexity? What's the layer of abstraction? How do you simplify? How do you combine things into fewer experiences so that everything works, which experiences is which layers is it open which layers is it closed?

Why is it open? Is it open so that people will be a little wall trust it, which was the android argument or linux argument Well, and so that people can work on it? Is it open so that you can build an ecosystem. Now Ios isn't open so that you work on yourself. It's open so that you can pull the ecosystem.

You so which layers need to be open. And what will that do? And so you've got these kind of all of those dimensions of what is open and clay, centralized, decentralized complex, simple, controlled, uncontrolled. Oh for crypto frankly white happened in ways that they were wide open for the early Internet. Also in many ways why open source.

And both the Internet and the open source came with all of this ideology. You know, the Internet hated government, open source hated car capitalism. A crypto hated government again. So you know, you get all these people say, oh, it'll be be great. We'll get rid a censorship.

So most people kind of... That thing that you're calling censorship, other people call child porn. So there's a difference of attitude here.

Speaker 1: I like that evolution of just like it seems like everything... It all starts.

Speaker 0: But it's also like there are these very powerful forces. That resulted in the things that you now don't like. And it wasn't that Microsoft was evil, or that Apple was evil or the Google was evil. Maybe they were, but that wasn't why we wanted to have one ios os and not twenty. All of which is a sort of a long way of saying, I don't think there's any in the future.

There's not a the universe or the Vr or the mobile this, it's just lots and lots of stuff.

Speaker 1: It's development. Yeah. Based on everything that you've just said there. And for the last couple of days I've been thinking about? Like, how does this then?

Let's not call it the meta. But how does everything that you've just described? Fit into the real world economy. How are we then bridging that gap, and we've spoken here about world roblox and Fortnite both of which, you know, we've gone into detail some amount of detail, but they're both kind of trying to create that bridge between the online space and the Real world economy and actually making money. And I spoke to you just before we joined this call about feeling very old when someone mentioned to me the direct to Ab avatar I forget, direct to consumer.

Do direct to Avatar, which is this whole business model idea of basically selling products directly to, Avatar, or digital identities entities. But what was interesting with that is you then don't need a supply.

Speaker 0: Yeah. Avatar is definitely on the white... Avatar definitely

Speaker 1: On the whiteboard. Yeah That. But then it is... If you think about this, whole marketing idea of direct to Avatar. You don't need to worry about the supply chain.

But, anyway, I've been thinking about, so how does this all fit into the real world economy.

Speaker 0: Well, so I raised also like, a piece tang gene about meta in which I mentioned earlier. And care and caring and Supreme. And say what else you age? I mean, you could sort of go to history of the luxury goods the fashion industry. Back to the fifties.

The model in the fifties was and I'm gonna simplify this massively, but the model in the fifties wall that you had a Couture house in France that made a tailored evening gap. Yeah. That was expensive. The... An American department store, like, there would be a luxury department store, like, I'm magnum, which I think was in San Francisco.

While. I forget anyway. So I meant there are hundreds of department stores and they would send a buyers to Paris, and they would buy some of these dresses. They would buy, like, one of that dress and one of that dress. Not like an order, they would buy one.

And on the explicit open bank, it premise that they were gonna take it back San Francisco and sell copies. That was what that was the deal. That was that was the model that you, you know, that that dior would sell these dresses to paris social lives in London and New York comparison, and then they would sell, but they would also sell one of those dresses to each of twenty department stores who would sell cheap copies. That was how it worked. And then you get ready to wear.

And, again, I'm simplifying this massively, and if Saint laurent, Pierre basically decide to do that themselves. And they Sandal will start selling ready to work. And so that step two, again massively simplifying this. And then step three for the sake of argument is that instead of these little independent companies, many of which are sort of owned by weird random corporates like the owned by John chemicals company or something or car company.

Speaker 1: Insane

Speaker 0: That that instead, there will be a... A company that owns lots of them and provides the capital and the management support and the Cfo and the distribution and the manufacturing backup and can build you the stores. And when you want to retire the... The management scrutiny, you know, can swap in that, the designers over time. And so it becomes a platform business in a sense.

With many of these business these individual they call the Mai on top. And so if you don't know it's like pretty much every major fashion label you could think of, or like say two thirds of them are owned by either L caring or small. And there's some that are independent, but me an awful lot of them are owned by them. And the reason this is interesting to me is that here you are selling your mass manufacturing mass remark and mass retailing a bespoke craft individual item. And the same, you know, an analogous point for supreme.

Here you have a piece of injection molded plastic and nylon and you're persuading people to queue up outside your store for ten hours and tell them that it's unique. And the only reason it's unique is you told them it was unique and you, and you're gonna make two hundred or whatever the drop is, which is exactly the same sort of set of around. I and mechanic, but it's the same.

Speaker 1: But it's the same psychology. Yeah.

Speaker 0: Yes. How are you want you know. Here is something that it, you know, but and, you know, you could go both sort of and say well that the seven billion people on earth, and how do I tell myself that I'm not one of seven billion people and I'm unique. And I'm me, and I'm different can the answer is give your lots of money or one answer. Or alternatively you your other answer, I would never buy any of that stuff, and that's your web being unique an individual that's very cynical.

But, you know what you know what I mean?

Speaker 1: No, But it's no, but it's very true. It's this whole concept that we we are actually all taking these tiny decisions to make ourselves feel.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And part of that is to reason I went on this sort of long digress. Is how does digital fit into that as digital is no longer just a word processor. Or web browser, Digital is now plus much your identity as your music or your place, or become part of your music in your clothes and your identity and yourself brand, how you regard yourself. And so if Ar let me express myself in some way.

Like, I do something and people wearing Ar glasses see it or experience. That could be a thing. If crypto, you know, if Nxt let me provided some compelling mechanic to let me buy and sell or express that form of identity. If it was like a validated way of showing that I knew about that band first. So I'm picking pop culture status things.

Knowing nothing about pop culture, But you know what I mean? You know, you know, it's like the frame stub to walk to wood woodstock. On the the boomers wall, you know, frame ticket stuff to Woodstock, you know, or the first... The first Beatles Lp or, you know, Yes. I was, you know, I was at the Nirvana first concert in New York or whatever it is.

Some of that is you don't... You're know it's not about telling people, but some of it is. And even if it's not about that, what is the digital equivalent of the first Nirvana concert?

Speaker 1: Oh, we can... We're not gonna do it, but you... There's a whole fred to pull their on fandom and cults and just like that feeling of belonging and, yeah, It's fascinating.

Speaker 0: And I don't want to just say that it's just about one up and shift stage signaling, but it's about culture and how you think about what something is and where you fit within it. And so, yes, if the met, the the us is kind of bullshit, but the concept of digital and aspects of that, whether it's Ar or Vr or entities or, you know, social or gain or something continuing to expand massively within that. You know, that, I think is is is hard to disagree with.

Speaker 1: And everything you've just explained there bernadette so just it makes sense when you think of it in that realm, that if we are spending more time online, and we are spending more time, whether it's Vr, games wouldn't you name it. Then there is them a star. It's normal. It makes sense that there is that desire to stand out and to feel unique. It makes sense that Nike did a job of virtual Jordans in Fortnite.

It makes sense that Gucci is selling handbags in Roblox. Like it all starts making sense if you take that lights the human nature of things.

Speaker 0: Of course, it is now, of course, you can flip this other way and say when Gucci bale do that. Is this real consumer activity or is this an budget and marketing stunt because force happen in second life. And, you know, an awful lot, you know, I... You know, it it it's not particularly we talked a talk to at the beginning of this about, you know, invalid criticisms and say well, we have that in second life. It's kind of an invalid criticism.

Because, you know, with awful a lot of stuff, people try and do it first and don't get it right. People try to do smartphones in the nineties.

Speaker 1: The timing is wrong well the tech is in there.

Speaker 0: Yeah. The timing is wrong. The text wrong when you haven't got the formula right it, and it's not when people, you know, my myspace didn't quite work or my myspace was there and then Facebook too much better and blah blah. But, you know, you do need to always to be conscious. I mean, I remember years long very a long time ago in, like, as it might be two thousand.

The hot mobile service in the time entered to Doc, had a mobile operated vending machine in a in a train station in Tokyo.

Speaker 1: This

Speaker 0: is very very exciting at the time. And this is interesting. How does this work? And so somebody asks what are the dopamine engineers, one are the users. And they say as it might be well, twenty percent people were for Day.

Twenty percent people work for our competitors. Twenty percent twenty percent consultants, investment bankers.

Speaker 1: I'm just percent consumer.

Speaker 0: Engine engineers. Like actual consumers none. It's only people in the industry. And so, you know, when you see, you know, Bale Sci sold a handbag and well, okay. Who?

Yeah. Did they did they? What exactly did would what we talking about here. Are we talking about an experimental budget and a marketing stunt. And this is a great challenge in trying to assess traction in Crypto is you know, lots of people bought the token?

Okay. But why? A did lot... Is it actually lots of people or is it the same people buying them back and forth and watching the trade up? But be, did they buy it because they really enjoy the game?

Or do they buy it because they think it's going up?

Speaker 1: And you can see from a brand and consumer perspective. Are you doing it to prove a point? Are you doing it because everyone else is doing it? Are you... Or are you truly doing it because you...

Fine and I have this a lot conversations with people in N? And like, why why are you investing in it? Like, what you what is... I, what are you loving about it? And I have to say most people say it's, like, I feel I have to do it.

As I'm missing out or something. Everyone is talking about it, and I don't, you I've got the fear of missing out. Complete Yeah.

Speaker 0: I mean, I was I was at Nbc When when, second life happened. And, you know, it's hard to explain to young people now, but like, there was a period of like, six months where absolutely every big company was spending millions of dollars each building your second life ireland, like everyone... And and it's just like the cost. If you think, you know, what does it cost to build a second You got build this Sweet Island and you've got to staff it and you got, of course, it cost like couple million dollars. So everyone did a second life island and they did it for a bit and nobody came and there were no users, and it was all, like, a complete waste of time.

And so everyone, yeah, so, well, that was a waste of time. But it you had to do it.

Speaker 1: You had to chop it.

Speaker 0: Yeah. You know, this is... You just have to understand how marketing departments and giant companies work. Of course, you have that. No, you at, you know, what are the digital people at l?

I don't forget your owns bale, But, of course, if there's an key project. Of course, so it's because they would not be doing their job properly. They should have Projects. They should experiment. They should go and sell it.

And, of course, you know, would be... I would be... It would be entirely unsurprisingly if it turned out that the Gucci handbag was bought by somebody from another job. She goes company with a strategy budget. From the strategy team of another luxury goods company.

It's like, so we went and we saw it was, like, and they've done like a ten page powerpoint explaining what the purchasing journey and change it to the voice.

Speaker 1: And on the other end they're sitting there going, We actually sold the handbag.

Speaker 0: I had this conversation with a watch company, a company that made smartwatch watches. And they've been trying them for sort of fifteen years. And so they showed the picture of the palm smart water that they made in light two thousand one, and the founder is like, Yeah. I think we sold three of those. And in all three thousand like three.

So, you know, I'm I'm I am being cynical, it's there is a huge amount of real activity here. But it's quite hard to pull apart what is the real activity from what's speculation. And that's kind of the feature. It's a feature crypto that the speculation is, you know, and this is not a criticism or some cynical comment at all. Very explicit in the whole concept the original bitcoin paper is speculation John starts to network and reward early adopters.

And so that's very con confounded is a way of looking at this stuff because it means that the speculation is signal. Whereas, you know, when Tesla share price goes up, that doesn't prove that Tesla's got autonomy working. It just tells you lots of people think Tesla's is doing well. It doesn't demonstrate that it is, and it doesn't help Tesla. Except that they can sell stock obviously.

But the price going up isn't cash tesla's bank account whereas a token going up is a kind of attraction for a product. This has taken us a long way from from meta. But is this sense of how how stuff gets built.

Speaker 1: But I... Look. I love that we started to talk about meta, and we talked about the fashion industry and the different the different eras and the different business models of the fashion industry. I I I think where we landed is actually the most interesting is There's no doubt there's a lot happening. There's a lot of activity.

What it's just fascinating to think about what percentage of it of is which is normal people trying to figure it out brands testing it out because you obviously have to, if you wanna stay ahead. What percentage of it, people actually believing that this is the future and they're investing time money and effort into it.

Speaker 0: A lot of people believe it's the future. But the... You know, the... This hugely difficult question in assessing any crypto project is to say there's an awful lot of people betting that this is the future. What is that telling me?

That's telling me a lot of people think this is the future. That's not quite the same as saying, wow. Have you seen how many pictures were posted on Instagram yesterday? That's not the same thing. It's related, but it's not white the same thing.

Speaker 1: The willingness for to be the future is doesn't mean that it absolutely is the future.

Speaker 0: But it's both, that's the problem. If for a stock price, there's no connection.

Speaker 1: Every time I think I've tried to simplify you come back.

Speaker 0: So this is the this is why it's complicated. This is why it's up. The stock price going up does not help the company except that it makes them easier for them to write. Capital by selling stock and issuing stock options, but the price going up itself doesn't tell you that they sold more product. Where I was a token activity in the token is both people speculating and actual real use.

But when look, you know, when somebody plays an game, and they pay two thousand dollars for something. Are they really paying two thousand dollars or are they swapping their ethereum game into another token? In the belief is taken will go up faster or both.

Speaker 1: And I think that's the piece that I love so much about all all the stuff that's happening online is that a huge element of creativity and the fact that there are just know... It feels like there are no boundaries. Like, the creativity is endless. And How you think of that in the fashion space. Like, you can yay and build whatever you your imagination can come up with.

Speaker 0: Well, this is Christ line outlook look for geek energy. Now, of course, sometimes that takes you to new topics. And drones and Sweetie printing. But it also takes you to Vr and it takes you to crypto. You know, what are all the clever people and sell value working on at the weekend, and a lot of them are working on Crypto.

And some of them are working on it for the money, but most of them aren't just working on it for the money or they're working on it because I think here is his substrate. In the same way that ios was a new substrate where suddenly, there was this completely blank that's where you can create anything. And before that, the web was a completely blank canvas where you can create anything. And before that f Pc. Mh And also Pc, I mean, you know and the late seventies Pcs were this amazing thing that suddenly you anyone could get a computer.

Now a number of people you could do something with acute future by itself with that operating system was pretty small, But if you were one of those people, This was amazing because previously, you had to kind of try and wait and get time on a mainframe. At a tab window. And now you could have your own computer and you could do whatever you wanted with it. Which you'd never been able to do before, and that you get that substrate and then, you know, the Pc and operating systems and then Windows and Mac, create this layer of abstraction that means massively few more people now have a substrate and you can do stuff with it. And then the web gets you this unlocks massively more created capability.

And then ios and Android or another wave of that. And that Crypto is kind of another wave of that. That creative possibility that you can just make something.

Speaker 1: I like that. So with every new wave, there's like, a blank canvas, look out for the geek energy and look account for that creativity that comes out of it.

Speaker 0: Something wise that Yes.

Speaker 1: Sun or something like that It's great to end.

Speaker 0: Yep.

Speaker 1: Amazing.

 

                                 The Metaverse ETF Boom is No Virtual Reality


Speaker 0: The meta emerging is the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development, and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta, brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence, who will break down the biggest developments and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the. Welcome once again to another exciting episode of into the med brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. I'm Matthew Ka, a senior equity research analyst.

Bloomberg Intelligence, and my c host, Y Ras Friedman, the Ceo and c founder of Super social are your hosts. We're super excited to have a really great guest join us today to break down the really exciting landscape of Med Etfs. Bloomberg Intelligence is Asia Etf analyst, Rub rebecca. Welcome Rebecca.

Speaker 1: Thank you for having me. Very excited to be beyond.

Speaker 0: And so if you couldn't tell, Rebecca is my colleague here in Hong Kong, and we're really excited to get on together because, you know, we've had lots of excellent coverage. Sessions together. She's done a lot of work on meta Etfs for Bloomberg professional subscribers. That research is available on the B t dashboard, b t go. A couple episodes ago.

We had a really great conversation with Mario from Round hill investment, so they have the round hill ball Med Etf. It's ticker m me Tv. Previously was meta, and there's a lot of back to why they changed it that we probably won't get into today. But, you know, since then, the landscape has truly exploded for Meta Ct etfs. And it's becoming quite exciting.

But before we dive into Meta Etfs, Rebecca, we do have to ask our favorite question that we pose to every guest, And I granted your view might just be a little bit skewed because you sit next to me at work. But in your view, you know, what is the meta? And I think we like to say it's more important to say what is not the meta?

Speaker 1: I'll have to be honest is before joining Bloomberg I had never really heard of the word meta. Until I met Matt. And if memory serves me correctly, this is one of the first thing that they mentioned to me even the interview process. They were like, you know, there's someone by the name of Matthew Ka. He's really well known and he's done a lot of research in the med.

And so, yes, my opinion is probably skewed because I sit right next to, but I also learn a lot from you, so I can't complain. So for me, The meta is really a shared virtual space, whether that be live entertainment, playing video games together or socializing online, All of these things and trends that are merging to create something new. And so that's what I consider as the meta.

Speaker 0: I think that's a really concise great view of it. And I think what's important that you mentioned is it's about bringing people together. I think that's, y, you know, you've talked a lot about that's the reason you started super social when you did. It's because, you know, you realized that the onset of the pandemic that the meta is just the next form of human interaction.

Speaker 2: A hundred percent. And I mean, you know, that's kind of embedded also in the name of the company, super social because the hypothesis is that the meta is gonna be more social, more immersive, more expressive. And as human beings, I mean, really we are social creatures who want to interact. We want to do things together, We want to create together, we want to play together. And to me, that's what's sort of really, really exciting about the meta as a place for human experience, human interaction, playing, working, doing things together.

It doesn't mean always that it's gonna be with a certain kind of form factor on our head as we like to talk a lot about the meta is not a Vr headset, and you're not gonna access the matter exclusively from a Vr headset. You would like the access it from a multitude of form factors, the devices and platforms. And so, Rebecca, I think what you're describing is well aligned with what have we have been sort of preaching. And and also talking to some phenomenal people in past episode. And so, Rebecca is you, as you've looked at at the market earlier this year, actually late last year, Facebook changed their name to Meta, And then earlier Dc just quite recently, they finally got the ticker meta.

So now the the story is well rounded. And you have been forecasting that Med Eds would hit two billion of assets under management by the end of twenty twenty one. Many people thought that was aggressive. And then almost overnight, you know, we we think it kind of went from about a hundred million and breached the two billion mark that you've outlined. And so not only your a trail laser, but also, how big do you think the meta Ed can get, let's say, over the next five years, three to five years.

And what sort of the the rationale behind those assumptions?

Speaker 1: So to provide some context for the audience. When I first joined Bloomberg intelligence and in August, my first meta Etf piece came out in early October. Well before Facebook said they were going to re brand. And I said that by twenty twenty four, Med Etfs could reach eighty billion in assets. And I remember getting laughed at but my colleague saying that I was way off and off by at least a factor of ten and that this was impossible.

By the end of twenty twenty one, Assets had surpassed two billion, and there was already a very long list of Etf issuers in the pipeline that had filed for a meta Etf to be launched in twenty twenty two. I would definitely say that Facebook has helped bring the meta to the broader market, and many Etf for issuers, including Fidelity, Prose shares, global x and first trust, and many more in Asia will be launching Etfs related to the meta now. But with the names of, like, fidelity and first trust onboard, this means that the product will be distributed amongst retail investors very quickly. And so we... If we include the various sectors in the meta from entertainment to video games, commerce, it would be very easy to reach eighty billion.

By twenty twenty four. So for instance, the entertainment Etf is already five billion. And so it really depends on what you constitute as the med and what you include in to this space because it's constantly evolving, and there's so many different parts, whether it's video games, entertainment, social media. If you loop and group all of those etfs together, you can really easily reach eighty billion by twenty twenty four. So there's definitely huge growth potential.

And I think this year, we're gonna see some very interesting things happen in this space.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. You know, we've already seen so much excitement. And I and I think one of the things that's been truly interesting about the the emerging meta Etf landscape is how global it's been in major. You know, we've talked a lot about Korea. We've seen Etfs launch in Taiwan focused on the med.

You know, maybe if we could just step back for a second, and maybe you could give us a lay of the land, you know, just even in the last six months or so, it's really blossom. Who is the biggest by assets? Who's kind of the whale in this space? You know, everyone likes to look at, like, the biggest Ct etfs always tend to, like, shine above whether that's passive or active? And then in terms of regions and just kind of break breakdown, where are you seeing the most action?

What's what's what's most exciting?

Speaker 1: So the meta has definitely exploded in the past six months So let's set some parameters. If we look at all Etf that has the word meta in their description. Then the first Etf would be the round ball which was launched on June t of twenty twenty one. Since then, there's been Fourteen Eta etf launches around the world with the word med in the description. I specify this because there's a lot of Etf issuers that consider their Etf to be the meta, whether it'd be a video game, tech or artificial intelligence.

So we really need to set the parameters for what we consider. As there's more than ten thousand Etfs globally with ten point one trillion dollars in assets under management. So if we start including video games tech cybersecurity, then the universe gets much larger. So we're gonna stick to the definition of, you need to have the word meta in their definition. Or in their description.

And so the largest Etf would be Round till, who has eight hundred and sixty three million in assets under management followed by Korea, Samsung codecs actively manage at three hundred thirty seven and then Mir asset Tiger at three hundred and twenty four. And so to provide some context, both Samsung's Etf was only launched in October last year. And so they were really one of the leaders in the space in Asia. And so both Mir and Samsung got a hundred million, which is often considered the breakeven put for Etfs in just under two weeks, making this one of the fastest growing Etfs globally. And so another interesting fact about Korea is that they now have eight meta versus Etfs with assets of one point two billion under management.

And so of the eight Etfs four of them were only launched on December twentieth. And so they grew their assets very quickly, and most of this came from retail investors. So I'd say in the region Korea is definitely leading. They have one of the most Etfs and they grow the quickest, so they already have one point two billion in just a few weeks, but the largest is definitely round toe as they were the first to launch.

Speaker 2: So just just again, to clarify, thank you for this breakdown Rebecca super interesting. So there are fourteen Etfs with the distinct characteristic that includes the matters in their descriptors. Out of the fourteen, eight are from Korea. Is that what you said?

Speaker 1: Yeah. So of the fourteen eight are from Korea. So this really shows that Korea is really investing into the med space.

Speaker 2: That's fascinating.

Speaker 0: Just wanna plug into one thing you said that I thought was really interesting. You talked about retail excitement around Etfs. And for people that aren't into the technical of Etfs, there's institutional distribution, which is, you know, selling to affluent clients through private wealth or its hedge funds, you know, those types of large investors, pension funds, right, buying Etfs, and there's retail, which is just Y managing his money on the side, you know, in a in a Robinhood account or whoever might be doing that. Right? And so I I think your colleague, Eric Ba in the States and, you know, we talked about this on the Trillions podcast, shout out to Trillions.

It's on Spotify Apple on the Bloomberg terminal, but we talked about how, like, video game Etfs, meta Etfs have always skewed heavily to retail distribution. You know, what... What's your thoughts on kind of can can men start to penetrate the institutional space where video games kind of failed to?

Speaker 1: I definitely think there's space for institutional clients to get invested in the in this, especially now that the meta is such a big trend for most institutional clients they have a global portfolio so from an asset allocation perspective, sector, specific focused themes like meta will never be a large. You'll never be a core percentage, but it could be anything from one to five percent of their portfolio. And so with institutional money, the this then brings in those large trades, you know, the trades out of more than one million. It usually can be, you know, one million to five, ten, even fifty million depending on the type of institutional clients. And so I think with the likes of fidelity coming on board in some of the larger players, you're definitely gonna start seeing the institutional money pour in.

The question is only a matter of fact of timing, You know, will it happen this year or will it happen mixture? I think everyone is looking at the tech space, and Kathy wood mention this in in her webinar that we had with her last year was a, you know, technologies here to stay. The question is how do we adopt it into our portfolio? And what access do we want? Do we want it as artificial intelligence do we wanna has meta.

So everyone is investing into the technology sector, the only question is how. And so I think the meta definitely has space in for the institutional clients is just a matter of fact of how much do they allocate is a one percent, three percent or five percent.

Speaker 2: To what extent do you think that one of the biggest players if it's, you know, Vanguard or fidelity or Black cross coming with their own. Do do you envision one of those big players coming with an Etf? Anytime soon. And if they do, how much do you think it will accelerate the wider adoption of investors of Etfs related to the members?

Speaker 1: So Fidelity filed for their Etf last month in January and they're expected to launch in April. And so I think that it shows that there's a clear demand for it, you know, will the likes of Black rock and Vanguard follow. I can definitely see Black rock following. Because Black themselves do have a lot of sector them Etfs. So for instance, they launched a robotic Etfs.

Several years ago, and it very quickly gained one billion assets in only a few months because their distribution channel is so great. And so I think that everyone is looking at this space and once they file and launch the product, it's only a matter of time before they get people on board. So an interesting fact is when first trust filed for their test. First trust is based in Illinois. And so they're purely a retail investor, and all of their distribution is done through.

Various asset managers and retail players in the Us. We were discussing as a team when they filed that, you know, there must be clear demand for someone like first trust to be doing this because otherwise, it doesn't really make sense. And so I think everyone realized that the meta here to stay, and they want to be invested into it. And so that's why despite the performance of etf, I think year to date performance is down seventeen percent. We've still seen positive inflow into this sector.

Even though the performance keeps going down.

Speaker 0: Yeah. That's something that I wanted to drill into. And, you know, I remember last year, we were talking about this with China Internet Etfs. We, you know, we saw this with K web. Right?

The China Internet stocks got whacked. But inflow were really strong. We've seen it this year with meta etfs even though some of these have been, like, dropping thirty, forty percent from their highs, you know, the Au has stayed roughly flat, meaning that there's been strong inflow. Given the and, you know, some of this is just the backdrop of turbulence with the broader market and high growth stocks, which make up a lot of the constituents in these funds, but you know, some of it has been company specific performance. We, you know, we're recording this the day after roadblocks reported earnings, and that was a, you know, a pretty spectacular drop in the stock price and that will be reflect in the Etfs.

But do you think that this divergence between performance and flows can continue? Or do you think that this is something that if performance doesn't pick up in the next quarter or two that we are gonna start to see some people kind of get fed up with the theme and move on to the next thing.

Speaker 1: So let's use the example that, you mentioned of K web. So for the... Those that don't know. K web is the Crane share Csi China Internet Etf. And the performance of k web twenty twenty one was down fifty six percent but the fund grew eighty percent in net new assets.

So at the beginning of the year, they had three point five billion. And by the end of the year, they had six point three billion. Despite the performance being down fifty six percent. So as the performance went down, inflow went up, which is a very strange divergence. However, I think what this shows is that investors are really interested in the sector for the long haul and not really word from the day to day performance of the fun.

I believe this is happening with the meta and this parallels, what we've seen in China tech. And so if we look at year to date, meta Etf performance is down seventeen percent, but inflow are at two hundred and sixty three million. So looking at Round ball Etf from the time that Facebook announced re brand to med, their Etf inflow sky skyrocketed from around a hundred million to nine hundred and fifty million in just three months. And their assets grew so quickly that they even reduced their fees from seventy five basis points to fifty nine basis points. So this really shows that investors are in this for the long haul regardless of the performance, and I think we're seeing the same thing in the meta.

So a lot of investors in just want to invest into the space regardless of performance because they I think the meta is going to do well in the next five to ten years. And so ultimately, Etf is an easy way for them to get access to the meta space without having to stock pick which names they want.

Speaker 0: That's a great point. And I think for a lot, particularly retail investors. Right? And we talked about this with Eric on trillions again, you know, you can have your core portfolio of passive. Right?

You can have your by or your your your V or whatever passive core portfolio you want, Ag g in there. And then you can supplement it with these active exposures. Right? Med Arc, And, you know, I think when you're thinking about those sorts of things, it makes tons of sense for those to be longer term views. I mean, no one that's come on this podcast and neither Y or myself believe that this is gonna be...

You know, we're gonna be experiencing the med in it's true his form next year. You know, this is a decade or more out. And so you wanna be riding the wave and writing the investment along the way. And so I totally think what you just said aligns with our fundamental view of the market.

Speaker 2: And Rebecca, as you as you look at sort of the landscape, it's clear that meta Etfs are taking different flavors And so when you look at the cons constituents of these fonts, are you seeing any similarities or differences between them? I think it's really interesting going to be I believe to our audience to really understand that when you talk about fourteen Etfs already and more coming, these are not apple to apple. There's a lot of differences among these Etf. So it would be great to kinda of break down some of the key similarities key differences among these Etfs that in existence already now. Are there any that stand out that are strongly representing quote unquote true net alpha, and are there potentially some that just look like they're trying to ride the hype cycle, but you can see some flavors of Bs.

Speaker 1: So for any Etfs, I'd always advise investors that you really need to look under the hood. And see what index they use and what methodology is. So for instance, the round tailed ball Etf has a custom ball meta versus index which is comprised of an expert counsel, which maps and ways companies into seven different categories. So for instance, they factor in computing power, the power that's used to support the Meta virtual platforms, payment networking, interchange standards, which our tools protocol service use operating the meta hardware and content. While those in Korea for instance, have a range of companies in the tech space from cell phone park providers, two computer games to newspaper companies that also manufacture fur and leather garments, J content tree corp, So for any Etfs, due diligence is crucial as not only do you wanna know what the index tracks but also what the replication method is fees and you really need to look at the total cost of ownership and not just the name.

And so what I get is oftentimes they have Etf issuers coming to me. They're like, oh, you're writing about the better can you include my Etfs. And their eta etfs could be anything in the text base from artificial intelligence to cybersecurity to video games. And so when investors ask, you know, what should I invest in, you really need to do your due diligence because there more than ten thousand Etfs out there globally. And just because it says meta, it may not truly be a meta Etf.

And so I think, you know, Matthew's has done a really good job at finding of what the meta index should be, and Bloomberg has an index on this. And so you really need to do your deal diligence of seeing what the product really is before you buy it.

Speaker 0: Shout out. To the Bloomberg Med Index for Bloomberg professional subscribers that's Be meta index on your terminal. Thanks for Rebecca. Full marketing pitch, know, we're going all in on the marketing pitch on this episode. But it's...

You know, this is what happens when you get, you know, two of our colleagues together on here. We have to support the products that we're building.

Speaker 1: Maybe you could tell us a little bit about it.

Speaker 0: I mean, I'm I'm happy to. I mean, so, you know, our index, which we are if you are an Etf you know, issuer and you're interested in licensing, feel free to reach out to me or Rebecca or anyone on our index product team, but, you know, we we built a basket of companies that we really think are you know, driving and and and really, the key enabler and key drivers of building the universe because we do have this long term vision of what it is. And so that really fuels our vision for creating a basket of companies that are the most leveraged to that investment cycle. And then out of that, our index team has taken that and created the Bloomberg Medi first his index, which is, you know, already available. And, you know, obviously, our whole index team, you know, we're open to both you know, just the vanilla play option and also, you know, customizable options.

So you can definitely reach out to us and, you know, we can work with you on that, but it it is a really cool product that we have. And so I I think you know, one other thing and you mentioned it before that I that I wanted to dive into, you know, you mentioned it in regards to the to the round Ball meta Etf was the fees. And, you know, they started out. I believe at seventy five basis points, and they cut that by about a third recently. When we when we look at the broader Etf landscape.

And I I know this was more of a passive phenomenon, but there was like, a race to zero. Right? It... You know, it very quickly became a race to zero in the passive world. When you look at active and you look at meta, does them cutting their fees give you caution for, you know, the Etf issue in terms of Okay.

Everyone's getting in the pool, fidelity. Ever everyone's jumping in, are we concerned that some of these more, you know, niche issuers are gonna start to see fee pressure?

Speaker 1: I think if we look at the fourteen med Etfs that we have that currently have meta as part of the definition. The median expect expense ratio across fourteen etf is currently fifty two basis points. And so that's really considered high by Us standards. The cheapest is currently at fifteen basis points by evolve in Canada, and the most expensive is at one percent by Fu coupon selective in Taiwan. So there's definitely room to move on the fees, but an interesting thing to note is that in Asia, the fees generally don't matter much.

And the fees are usually much higher than they are in the Us because in Asia, you need to pay retro fees and rebates. To the issuers. So there's a distribution channel and people pay some fees. While in the Us, the fees have come down because you don't pay this retro session fees and rebates in the Us Has our own distribution channels. And so I don't think that the fees matters as much for Asian investors.

And so it really depends on where the Etf is listed because this is now a global product that the investors in Asia for instance, don't really look at feeds. They look at more of the branding, what is the product? Am I interested in this while in the Us, you have a lot more options. And so if we look at the Etfs globally, the Us market usually accounts for sixty to seventy percent of the market share in terms of assets under management. So Asia Pacific, is only ten percent of the total market share.

And so for Asian investors, what they consider is gonna be very different to what investors in Europe consider. To Us. And so I think as a product issuer, when you're looking to launch products, you need to see, you know, who are you targeting? And what is the method that you want to use because each region is so different. And so I do think fees will come down, but in certain regions, like, for instance, a Hong call.

A lot of the Etf average fee is ninety basis points, and they're super successful, and they don't have to reduce their fees. While if you had the same product the Us, that would not be excess hustle product because of the competition, it would drive the fee down to, less, you know, it can even be zero basis points. So if we look at the Us for instance, Fidelity, wanted to get into the market. And so they launched Etfs that had zero management fees simply because they wanted to get assets. And so I definitely think fees will come down, but it depends on the region and the product that they're launching.

Speaker 2: With so much momentum in twenty twenty two. Rebecca, you know, we have, of course, Meta, Facebook, just getting the ticker meta, the meta or and now, m mv mv, the previous meta Etf of the meta ball index is now continuing to grow. More Etfs are coming, You talked about fidelity coming out. You know, we have the Bloomberg index, which will likely bring more Etfs that are based on the index. What is the kind of key highlights that you project for twenty twenty two when it comes to...

When it comes to Med Etf, who are the players that you think are going to shape the year And then more broadly, how do you think the wider economic landscape and the decline, the decrease of the of tech stocks over the last month and a half? Will shape the conversation for the for the remainder of the year.

Speaker 1: So I think from a product perspective, we're currently at Fourteen... Pure Etfs at two point two billion in assets under management. So by year, end I could easily see this being double that. So more than thirty pure Etf meta Etfs, more than five billion in assets. And I think we're gonna start seeing more interesting products.

So for instance, leverage in inverse. Meta Etfs coming out. We can also expect other sectors to merge. So for instance, social media gaming e commerce. A lot of these Etfs are considered rebranding themselves to a meta etfs.

There's already talks amongst some video games Etf issuers and they're like, oh, you know, instead of calling it. The e game Etf, we can call it the meta Etf so for instance. And so I think we're gonna definitely see this asset grow and more products being launched. And I think we mentioned this in the beginning. When we look at Meta, you know, it's not just one trend.

It's a it's a combination of a shared virtual space of commerce, video games, social media, and I think Etfs is going to replicate that. And so you could potentially see synergies amongst the Etfs.

Speaker 2: Yeah. It's a it's an interesting point You mentioned, you know, I've been I've been talking a few times and about about this with with, you know, with with different people and you know, back in into two thousand, if you if you started a technology company, you you're an Internet company. Right? And and then it was, like, If you started a company in the mid in the mid two thousand, you're, you know, you're a mobile company. I think now, I think we're gonna move into a trend where a lot of companies just gonna start calling themselves a med adverse company.

I mean, as super social, I have defined super social for the last twenty months since we started as a med company. And I think as many more companies referred to themselves as a med adverse company, I think we're gonna see, at least this is kind of my projection is that we might start seeing so many Etfs, as you said, not only launching as a meta ct etf, but retrofit themselves as a f because the... What it is included in meta quote unquote, technologies, product services is likely going to grow beyond consumer to industrial applications, to enterprise application. Obviously, we had a fantastic conversation recently, which will go live soon with, you know, the Vp of omni and simulation at Nav nvidia. We know that the is so much bigger than just a bunch of N entities and and games on on roblox.

We're talking about a a across the board shift and paradigm shift. Of the world of technology and what it means to build these next generation applications. And and so I I I think what you're saying is is totally realistic from my non Etf expert point of view. I would be I would be personally surprised if by the end of twenty twenty two, we will not have double the amount of Etfs available in the market and double the value of assets under management. Matthew, What do you think?

Speaker 0: I think everything you just said, I was gonna jump in and mention, you know, Rev from Nvidia. So I'm I'm glad you did because I was thinking the same exact thing, You know, because Rebecca hit it on the head right. We're seeing the meta emerge out of the gaming sector now. And, you know, this is what Mark Petite was saying. Right?

When we spoke with him early on in the podcast is that you know, if real time three d is kind of the one of the core technologies, gaming companies have the most experience in using it. And so clearly, it makes sense that the meta is emerging out of the gaming sector. But then going forward, you know, as it perm into other sectors, we're gonna see this takeoff off in ways that we can't even imagine. I mean... And this is what Rev was getting at.

It's like, if you would've have asked someone to look... You know, to... If you would've have showed them Instagram twenty years ago, They would've have said what the heck is this thing. Like, I could never imagine this ever being a thing, And and and so when we look ahead and we look at where this can go, you know, the possibilities are pretty much endless, how we can revolutionize, You mentioned commerce industrial, You know, every every single aspect of the economy. And this is what Matt Ball was kind of alluding to.

He did a great Bloomberg Tv interview and was quoting Jensen Huang from Nvidia. I was basically saying, you know, even as big as the internet is today, the digital economy is still only a slice of the global Gdp. The meta can be that next step to really bring the things that are still brick and mortar and the things that are still physical goods into the digital world and increase the digital share of global Gdp, which is north of eighty trillion, possibly ninety trillion dollars now. And so, you know, clearly, the opportunities get insanely large as you start to realize all the different applications of these technologies.

Speaker 2: Here is a food for thought for us. Right? Matthew, you... You've done a great job last year in On Bloomberg gone kind of laying out the the the potential total addressable market for the med over the next several years. And I think it was something around eight hundred billion dollar of of market size.

Right? I think about market size and total addressable market slightly differently, and, you know, we can then figure out afterwards, how do we put in an economic value. But we have about roughly eight billion people around the world. Let's assume the meta is going to be something that you access with an Internet connection, and a pretty powerful, consumer device. Right?

In some countries, it's gonna be a mobile phone, Pc game console, autonomous vehicle, space cheap Who knows. Right? So let's assume there's almost a billion billion people around the world. Let's assume the meta over the next half a decade a decade. He's gonna have five, six billion people accessing meta experiences and meta applications.

Here's the beautiful thing. When we think about the meta, because we're going to to a large extent experience the med as an Avatar, we are not only gonna have one avatar. Right? As Jonathan, I'm gonna have... I'm already planning.

I'm designing my identities every day. I'm gonna have multiple identities. I might have five to ten different avatars that live and exist and interact in the med. And so when I think about total addressable market from number of users I think the meta could potentially have more than a hundred billion personalities that live interact, engage, consume in the med. And we're gonna...

I'm gonna want to take care of my avatars. I'm gonna wanna give them appearances. I'm gonna wanna send them to learn to to play to to concerts in in the meta to play sports. And when you think about that in this way, and let's assume we do have a meta with more than hundred billion constituents or or users, the matter could likely be at a size of an economy that is in the trillions. I don't think that's so crazy to assume.

If you subscribe to the world that as humans, we are going to live in the universe, not just as real people, but also with multiple identities that are manifested as avatars.

Speaker 0: I I love that. I love that idea and you know, to tie it back, you know, those hundred billion may all need to invest in Etf.

Speaker 2: So... Maybe we're gonna recognize for any interesting.

Speaker 0: This your thought for another day, but what does... What do Etfs look like in the meta? No. But this this has been a fantastic stick conversation, Rebecca. Thank you so much for joining us on this rainy, cloudy, gross cold morning in Hong Kong.

And any last thoughts?

Speaker 1: I definitely say your comment jonas of having multiple avatar really shows that the meta has endless possibilities. And like everyone before on this podcast has said, you know, we don't really know what the end goal or what it look like in five to ten years. And so there's definitely a lot of room for growth with so many options. And I think as we look at that space. And as we look at what Etf issuers are doing.

Everyone's still trying to figure out, you know, what is the meta and how do we get into it? And a lot of Etf issuers are you know, using their own custom index so Fidelity is launching their own fidelity meta index. And so there's definitely a lot of room put for growth, but there's also a lot of room for synergies, potential merges, you know, combining Etfs. And so it's definitely very interesting to see what can happen because I can see certain ish Etf issuers that have very niche products, combining say their video game in their e commerce. Etfs into one and just calling it meta so that the assets grow even faster.

And if that happens, you know, we can very easily reach eighty billion by twenty twenty four. So thank you very much for having me.

Speaker 2: This is a great point. You're welcome. It's been great to have you here. But this is a great point because here is another thought. Right?

Like, it wouldn't be crazy to assume that there might be consumer brands that will rapidly adopt meta as a frontier, they want to operate in. And if they do it, then they do it extensively, for example, a company like Nike, that has acquired an N studio named Artifacts. It wouldn't be crazy to assume that some brand, consumer brands companies could actually be part of Meta... Of Med Etfs. I I I don't think that's far fetched concept over the next you know, even eighteen to twenty four months.

That would also increase what is a f could actually include? It goes beyond technology. If everything is technology, and every company is essentially a technology company. And every... And if the meta is the next big era of of technologies, than a lot of other companies that today are not part of meta, could actually be part of Etfs and Etfs, and then you may have all sorts of subsets of Etfs that are popping up.

Speaker 1: I think that brings an interesting point like, meta not really defined so for instance, hypothetically if we start involving crypto and n entities and blockchain technology into it. For instance, in the Us crypto is having difficulties at the moment trying to get approval for a physical bitcoin Etf But what if crypto falls under meta then it might be under different classification. And so it really can grow to endless possibility

Speaker 0: The possibility right let's send the meta. With that. I I think we'll wrap up. Thank you so much, for Rebecca and everyone. Thanks for listening.               


                              The Metaverse ETF Boom With Mario Stefanidis


Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers, social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta, brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest developments and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the meta. Welcome to the latest edition of into the meta brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence I'm Matthew Can.

I'm a senior equity research analyst with Bloomberg intelligence and my c host is Y on Ross Friedman, the Ceo and c founder of Super social. A company making games and experiences for the meta starting with roblox. We're super excited to to be recording today with a really interesting guest, you know, for me own, you know, obviously, I come from the financial industry, my view on on looking at the meta versus, you know, it at the end of the day. It's... Yeah.

I'm... I love it as a schumer, but I'm interested in it as an analyst as well from the financial side and, you know, we're we're we're really excited to bring in Mario Stephan. He's a vice president of research from from round hill investments. They have a super, you know, super successful really right out of the gate Etf, tracking the med. You know, he's been playing roadblocks for years, so he'll be a great guest to kinda give us the user experience, but also the market experience, Welcome Mario.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Thanks so much for having me be honest script to speak to both of you again.

Speaker 0: So I I know we did a webinar a couple, you know, probably almost a year ago now, you know, looking at you know, roadblocks and the opportunity and the med. And I I think one of the things that Y and I have like to talk a lot about what the guests we've brought on the podcast is you know, this really important question that I've I've said at a time. It it sounds simple, but it's it's quite important, you know, to you and and you work with Matt Ball and in creating the fun that you guys have that super successful. That's the the ball round hill. I'm gonna butcher you the name, but you can correct me.

The ball around home meta Etf. It's the Meta ticker. You guys have done a lot of work in defining what the meta is. But if you could kinda just, you know, give us your analysis and and your overview of how you guys define the med in constructing your your your portfolio. And then I think most importantly is is also what is not the meta?

Because I think that's a really important point to make as well.

Speaker 1: Sure. So two two great questions to get us started. I think in the simplest terms, the meta versus going to be the successor to the current Internet and it's going to be an inter inter synchronous persistent series of virtual spaces that bridge both the digital and physical worlds. And, you know, the meta right now is way beyond our current reach due to technological limitations, but, there are companies, particularly gaming companies who have created experiences within music gaming sporting events that are going to define that kind of outer layer of the meta. And then, you know, just going a little bit deeper.

There's also an infrastructure layer a technology layer a networking layer that needs to be built first for those experiences to eventually live on and to be able to facilitate the millions of concurrent players that the meta ambitions. So I think in a in a nutshell, that's what the meta is an inter persistent. Synchronous successor to the current Internet. And in terms of what it is not, I think the most common misconception is that the meta versus virtual reality. People think that when you put on a Vr headset and you go into a world like Vr chat, for example, that that's the meta.

It it's really not because in chat, you're maybe playing with a couple dozen people, max, there's latency. There's not interoperability ability the worlds are, not synchronous, they're discreet standalone worlds. And you know, that's what the meta is not. It it it is not a virtual world, and it it's not just a digital world either. The the meta is going to span both the physical and the virtual world So, even Ar experiences, like some of the stuff that nintendo, for example, is doing now, we'll be something that you can envision seeing in the meta.

Speaker 0: I think that's a great point. And I think it's important to hit that home. You know, it's not just virtual worlds if you look at Disney world in Los Angeles where they have the Star Wars, you know, Theme park where they use Unity and other in real time three d software to enhance the physical world. That is also the net. You know, maybe Bob Ig doesn't realize that because he said that Disney plus is is their meta.

But the the meta isn't just a screen, It isn't just a device. It's it's anything that's enabled by real time three d. And I think that's a really important point that you made.

Speaker 1: Yeah. There's there's a lot of misconceptions of over what the meta versus, particularly when you hear private companies like Disney, saying, oh, we're we're gonna create our own meta. Like, I'm sure at Disney world will be an awesome experience within the med, but the meta won't just be... There won't be a Disney meta. And maybe we can talk a little bit about this down the line, but there's a lot of talk about what China's role in the meta is going to be and I I would argue that, China also cannot create their own meta.

I think there needs to be global cooperation and the meta is going to be a single entity rather than a number of disparate events.

Speaker 2: Yeah. I think I think that's definitely an interesting topic to kind of unpack and highly disputed, of course, given the the parallel Internet that China has created, kind of almost with a cyber wall, And I think that's gonna definitely be interesting to look at as either later in this conversation or as a separate conversation and Matt and I are definitely interested in unpacking the China angle when it comes to the med. But, you know, going back to what are some of the things that constitute the as emerges, you know, I think one of the thing we we continuously discuss in these podcasts and in other opportunities is the fact that the meta is also in a way, the next frontier of social human experiences over the Internet manifested in these, you know, real time three d large scale environments, and you know, is someone like yourself, Mario who has been playing Rob roblox for a long time and he's also a gamer and you know, we think it makes sense to think of you, especially as a kind of core user of, what emerged as a a premier meta, consistent meta platform like rob roblox.

And so the next question we have for you is from your perspective, as a user, but also as an analyst, how have these platforms evolved over time, and more importantly, what have been the key evolutions that elevate them to Med platform versus just gaining platforms, and you can give a historic view of how they evolved over time. And also take a stab at, what's the next several years could look like for this platform? Because You know, there is a race to the moon between Il elon and the race to Mars between Elon Musk and bezos and then there's the race to the members, which I'm more I'm more interested in personally. So what what's your take on where we came from and where we're going with regards to, you know, these emerging platforms?

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think the first things that could be thought of, like, Pro experiences were, M mmo rpg. And I think having the Internet get to a point in the late nineties and early two thousands, where even a dozen people could interact with each other. Not on land anymore, you know, or over the actual Internet was a very big evolutionary point in the development of web two point o. And you look at games like second life, for example, that game was really way ahead of its time because there was never a forum before where you could customize a digital avatar, hop into any number of worlds that you wanted and talk not only with your friends, but also the people you had never met before and forge friendships.

I mean, the there were even weddings in that game, Right? And also, in terms of a thriving economy, digital parcels and and real estate on second life, we're we're getting sold for tens of thousands of dollars. So I I I think second life did a very, very good job in defining some of the characteristics that games going forward would need to kind of delve into this pro meta state. And I think roadblocks when it came out in two thousand six, which is not super far off from when some of the first popular Mmo like roll of work Came. I think that was two thousand four.

Did a great job at defining that vision, but it was still too early. I joined Roblox in two thousand seven. I was I think one of the first first seventy thousand users. And I even remember, the platform hitting a hundred thousand users came, like, the subsequent year. So it was really, really slow.

And levels were capped at eight to twelve people. So not the type of, un untapped necessity that the med that the med needs, and there was significant latency problems, but it did a really, really good job at implementing the building blocks that roadblocks now utilizes to compensate creators I think the number this year is gonna be over half a billion dollars. Like, that wasn't even fathom back in in the late two thousands. Levels for the most part were created by the admins in the moderators on the website. Some of the most popular levels that I remember were were made by the mods.

And now there's a full fledged user generated economy that not only spans cosmetic items, but also spans levels themselves you can even advertise your own level on roadblocks now with robots, which I think is awesome. So it's really come a long way. And I'm excited by what I see with roblox. I think the beta now, seven hundred players can play concurrently. So it's really getting there.

But at the end of the day, when you play on a level in in roblox, your separate your server is separated from not only the other servers running that instance, but also from, other levels as well. So you can't just hop from adopt me to a sword fighting game. You need to physically leave and rejoin with an entire... Entirely new group of people. And I think the interoperability aspect of the med is going to be the most important thing to tackle.

But whoever can do that successfully is going to open the door for a number of dis joint experiences to come together and create a full fledged economy in a full fledged social media platform as well.

Speaker 0: I think what you're saying resonates really well with what Craig Don was talking about on our last episode where he talked about we would love to have this vision for an open inter opera meta, but we need to build the technology first and everything you're saying is totally aligned with that, you know, he said we're still in the first inning. I don't even know if we're out at the top of the first yet. It might not even be the bottom of the first inning yet. You know? And so you know, there's a long way to go to make these you know, massive scale, immersive experiences within a closed ecosystem before we can even think about opening those up.

And I think that's a really important point for for people to understand that. You know, there's a lot of hype about the matter today. Heck, we have a podcast about it. So, you know, that that underscores the hype, but there's also, you know, a lot of development that needs to be done on the way to to realize this vision.

Speaker 2: A hundred percent. I totally echo with both of your saying. I just wanna comment on one of the things that Mario mentioned for our audience, which is really interesting. I'd think the notion of, we have had Mmo or massive multiplayer online game environments for a while now. Right?

That I'm sure a bunch of people here. Who listening to the podcast podcasts at Plague of Legends and world of warcraft and and a bunch of others. And so when we think about meta environments is not necessarily just by companies who have been building platforms per s from day one. Like, roblox. Obviously, we know about efforts from other companies, and we're gonna talk about that in a few minutes.

But I think it's also interesting to think about who are those massive Mmo that historically have been really, really large over the past ten, fifteen, twenty years. That could also potentially build meta within their game ecosystems. Obviously, we know that epic to a large think of Fortnite and as as as as a game that he's becoming can become a platform and and later on a universe and I recall the tweet from Theme Sweeney, I think, couple of years ago, someone asked him he's fortnite to again, and he said at the moment it's a game, but asked me again in a year. And so, you know, I think I would not underestimate underestimated at all the world of Warcraft over the world, all of these Mmo that have emerged, we'd steal millions of users, looking at companies like riot games. If anyone things that riot games doesn't have internally a conversation about what does the mean for us?

He's obviously not paying attention to what come... Other companies are doing who come from the game side versus the platform like Robo. So, yeah know, I think it's a it's a it's a super fascinating interior at the moment.

Speaker 1: Yeah. And it's also very helpful that, a lot of these games have now been out for ten, fifteen plus years, I think we're entering this new environment where instead of titles being released cyclical, like annually or every other year. Developers are sticking with the same title over a number of years, monetizing that game as a service, and building layers on that game technologically to create, you know, an ever enhancing experience. You think about league of Legends, This game's been out since two thousand and nine how many more players does it have now how many more champions does it have now? Dota two, the most the highest prized pool esports in the world and one of the most popular esports in the world has been out since two thousand thirteen, world the warcraft has been out...

Like I said since two thousand four. These these games have now been out for a significant amount of time. And even in terms of first person shooters. So, for example, call of duty, you know, call of duty is launched annually. But act activation has found their most success with War zone, which is a service based title.

I I I I think if developers are still clinging to launch Windows. I think a lot of them are gonna revisit that and start to launch these individual experiences that are constantly updated as a service and are allowed to build into the next meta.

Speaker 0: Yeah. And I I I I think that's really important that, you know, we think about, you know, these these gaming companies elevating their experiences and shifting their strategy And, you know, I think that's a nice tie in to to my next question that I wanted to dive in And I wanted to give you, you know, a little bit of time to to talk about the Etf and the index and all the success you guys are having because, you know, I can't seem to keep up with where the Au is on a daily basis because I'm based in how and every morning I wake up and See you've added another hundred million dollars or so. And it's like, you know, it's absolutely bonkers how crazy things have been for you guys and it's fantastic for you guys. But you know, you know, if you just think about kind of some of the construction work that you did with Matt Ball and and his his counsel of experts that you've done to create the index and you know, the refined strategy you really brought to creating it because as you define the meta as we define the meta, it's the Internet So from a broad description, every company is a med earth company because every company has a presence on the Internet.

So you take a much more refined approach. And so Can you talk about, you know, when you constructed the index with them or how they did it and how you guys express it? You know, how did that strategy get refined how did you narrow down to the companies that are in the fund? And and how does that represent what you guys think are the leaders in the meta today?

Speaker 1: Yeah. So Matthew will has been working on this index since late twenty twenty. And for reference, we launched, June t, twenty twenty one. So it's really been in the oven a while. And I think the key question that he was posed with was if this index launched today, are there enough companies that could be defined as meta companies to to really launch this index or companies yet deriving their revenue from Meta sources.

And twenty twenty one has really showed us that companies are explicitly redefining their strategy focus on the meta. And I think, Facebook state, change to Meta platforms is the number one endorsement of that, the seventh biggest company in the United States, essentially becoming a meta first company. But when we launched June t, we have the same methodology that we have now, and that is defining the meta in seven categories, and I'll go through them quickly. It's computing. So the company enabling and supplying computing power to support the meta, networking, companies that provide connections and bandwidth and data services to consumers, virtual platforms, which are companies that, develop and operate immersive digital simulations and worlds, interchange standards.

So the companies that creating the protocols and tools for the med, payments, content assets and identity services and hardware. So those seven categories are what we use to define the index and within that, Matthew Ball and his team assign all very large universe of companies, I think it's over a thousand companies into one or more of these categories. And within those categories, companies receive a, a rating. So it's kind of this composite between, how many categories are you in? What's your rating in those categories?

And from there, you get the composition of the index. And, you know, over time, I think the number of constituents in that index are going to narrow as the meta gets more and more refined, even launching in in June, the index had fifty companies. And as of the last rebalance, which was a couple months ago, the index now has I I believe forty two companies. So that's kind of where we're at and, how the index has constructed. And behind that, it's Matthew Ball and a team of, six individuals on his expert counsel who have a wide range of experience within the meta, individuals who have worked for oc Facebook of valve in Aws to to name a few.

When we launched... We were pretty successful out of the gate, Matt kin attest to this, but launching a new Etf, typically, sees you start with low volume, low inflow. Even before Facebook's name change on October twenty eighth, we had a hundred fifty million inflow into the fund. So for all intents and purposes, it was going well, but I think that announcement really supercharged interest in the med, people were looking for ways to get exposure to the space, and the Etf really allows you to do that in a diversified manner, not doing security selection on individual companies, but rather this diversified basket of that contains companies that some or more that may become key players in the meta. So since that point, we went from a hundred fifty million in assets to.

I think we're just over eight hundred now. It... It's hard to keep up on our end too because of both the volatility, as well as the inflow, which are the two components of Au. But, yeah, We've been really happy with the success at the fund had where happy that our audience, which is almost exclusively retail, can appreciate what we've done here, and we think that we have the right fund to allow investors to get exposure to this emerging space.

Speaker 2: I feel bad for the eight companies that dropped, that sadly had been dropped out of the index, good luck to them as they say. And so you know, picking up on on on on this point and the success and congratulations again to all of you for really stellar growth over the past couple of months. Obviously, it's been a crazy ride for Meta, and and over the last few weeks, starting with the brand of Facebook to become met the platforms. And then catalyze by strong results across the board. Any meta player or meta related company, rogue roblox unity, etcetera, etcetera, all gave very strong quarterly reviews.

And also, there were announcements for Microsoft about their enterprise And, of course, there is the Ja out Nav nvidia that he's tracking closely towards it one trillion dollar company, which if you would ask anyone couple of years ago, it would sound completely completely unimaginable. And so looking at all of these announcements and updates from some of these major companies. And we're seeing these crazy inflow into into the your Etf what are these flows coming from? Where are these flows coming from? And what does it say about investor interest in the med, and and and and I think would be great for our listeners to get your commentary both from the retail investor but also the institutional one.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think it's... In terms of the retail and institutional, quote unquote divide. I think in our case, it's actually very similar. So Like I said, our strategy is primarily geared towards retail investors.

We have no outbound salesforce, which is pretty rare for an Etf company. All of our thought leadership and research is dis either on our social media, mainly lead Twitter. We publish research on our website as well. And we have a newsletter that, I think has just over ten thousand subscribers. So we have a a few outlets with which to dis dominate our stuff and institutions in Retail are both looking at it alike.

So it's really a level playing field kind of in line with the spirit of the meta meta, we have kind of a an equal playing field with with our investor base. They're they're both consuming the same content and, you, no one's really getting preferential treatment in terms of, who is is purchasing our fund that research that they're consuming. So I would say that the fund is probably ninety percent retail assets currently in ten percent institutional. It might even be less. But these investors are a lot of them are new to investing, especially post Covid.

We've seen obviously a surge in the trading apps in in the retail trading environment. And a lot of these people are becoming buy and hold investors kinda for the first time after we themselves off meme stocks. So, you know, it's it's yet to be seen if they'll really stick with us through our journey, but we've made it pretty clear that the meta versus not something that's going to be realized overnight. It's gonna be probably a decade or more until there is actually a meta person in place. And maybe in the next five years, you'll start to see a lot more on the experiences front.

But it's really the infrastructure and the technology that is the most significant hurdle. And institutions appreciate that, and they'll probably be some of the stick assess that's set the fund test. But you know, it it it's yet to be seen if retail will weather, the various bumps in the road that we've had.

Speaker 0: I think that's an important point because, you know, we're building and launching our Bloomberg, med index, and you guys have yours and I know we're technically gonna be competing. But, you know, I think it's good for the industry overall to have successful products. We've seen some others come out in other jurisdictions in Asia, particularly. But they don't necessarily, you know, to someone like me who's been studying the space. They don't look like pure meta.

They kinda just look like, diversified T baskets where they slap med on it, to ride the hype and. I think one of the things you're talking about One of the things that we've tried to talk about is building a sustainable product to your point that can ride these market cycles. I mean, Meta has been super successful. You guys have other funds that you know, I'm looking at, like Mvp and some of the others, your sports one. Right?

They haven't done as well. Your Bet Z etf did do exceptionally well right out of the gate. But, you know, Can you just talk about when you're when you're thinking about building these funds when you're thinking about these long term themes, you do really need to build something that is to sustainable for the long term. Right? You can't just be thinking about a near term bump.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Having a rules based methodology, that is rational and somewhat systematic is very important to make these products scalable, especially when, working with a small team like we have And Matt is kind of an endorsement for this new kind of model that we're trying out of partnering with thought leaders and various sectors of the industry and leveraging their expertise. So you know, it's a definitely a new frontier. It's a lot different than my old role, which was at Black rock and fixed income etfs, I could have never imagined that, you know, equity Etfs would eventually look like this. But I think the market is starting to get bi.

I I know Eric Ba talks a lot about this. But on on the one end, you have low cost beta in fixed income and equities that is indexed, rebalancing usually annually. And then on the other end, you have these types of them dramatic products that, in a lot of ways are almost active, even if even if they do technically tracking an index. That leverage the expertise of people that really know what they're talking about. And I think Matt has proved himself as one of the foremost experts within the meta.

So we're really happy with the relationship we build with them, and I think the methodology that he's put in place and the team he had in place will really allowed this one to scale definitely to a billion and beyond.

Speaker 0: It's before I let Y ask another question, I'll just note my colleague, Rebecca, who's our Etf analyst here in Asia. She put out a report just before Facebook did the name changed to Meta. She talked about Meta Etfs getting two billion of assets by the end of twenty twenty one, and potentially eighty billion over the next several years and everyone thought the number was really high. And then we look at the flows that have come into these Etfs lately and it's like, we could hit eighty billion dollars next year potentially, like, you know, we're we already crossed two billion now, which was crazy to think about even two months ago, and at the rate that we're going, you know, who knows where this thing could go. And and so it has been, you know, quite crazy.

Speaker 2: So Mario, one of the things we like to talk about this and and and obviously, this is still a... Very much earlier early stage But the role of blockchain crypto decent centralization would love to get your very preliminary point of view on how does blockchain and crypto and decent play both into the wider meta evolution and what the actually mean for people, as well as what does it mean for the?

Speaker 1: Sure. So I'll I'll start with the Etf, and it's actually a very question because today are letter requesting inclusion of cryptocurrency products, into the meta Ct etf got published on the Sec website. So I I I can't comment beyond much of what what is in the letter. But what I will say is, they're a very integral part of the med. We requested Bitcoin and Ethereum which, you know, our our currently works in progress for us.

But I think what the blockchain can do for the med is to create a secure decentralized environment that will set the standard for for transactions within the meta. So I think it primarily has an economic benefit Since the meta is going to be synchronous and users from every country, will be able to collaborate simultaneously. There can't be traditional fees, and there can't be the traditional payments friction that we currently have with the current system with the current wire system with current even credit cards. People have faced high fees and slow settlement times with traditional payments for decades. And for everything to be instantaneous, we are going to need technology to facilitate instant payments and that is going to come from the blockchain.

I think the prime... Another benefit has to do with security since the blockchain is decentralized, each record is secured via its own crypto graphic algorithm and every participant on the blockchain needs to basically agree to all the previous transactions for a new one to go through. Unless you have a fifty one percent attack, which is a story for for another podcast. But since we, that is the process for validating and legit minimizing transactions, you're going to be able to facilitate mass commerce via these consensus algorithms. One of the debates is, will the med have a public or a private blockchain, I e with a private blockchain, a single organization has control over the network and can onboard participants, as they please, tie view a history of the ledger or to be able to make transactions themselves or a public blockchain, which is something like Bitcoin, where the entire public can view what is going on.

I I think that's the most important thing that is going to govern pay payments in the med is either the adoption of a public or a private blockchain. And if it is private, will it be one organization or a collective of organizations that control it? And I tend to favor the public, aspect of it because, if you're going to have a decentralized space, a lot of that means shu the current hierarchical models, that organizations use that currently. So I I I think that's from the standpoint of of the meta as a whole. And then, like I said for our fund, we are actively exploring adding cryptocurrency products into it because we we believe that blockchain tech, is going to be pivotal to the meta?

Speaker 0: I totally agree. I think that there's a lot of applications of blockchain and T's that resonate with... You know, I I like to think about it from the consumer perspective again. Right? You know, the reason that consumers want to interact in these spaces is this concept of, you know, expressing yourself with your avatar or digital self expression, is I like to call it.

You know, the the the avatar economy as He likes to call it. There's a lot of different ways to call it the same thing. But in in the real world, we express ourselves by wearing the clothes we're wearing or in this case, I'm wearing, you know, a sweatshirt, you know, because I'm lazy today. But, you know, people carry fancy bags. They wear watches.

Etcetera because they wanna, you know, have these items express who they are and, you know, paint a picture of themselves and in the virtual world with your Avatar, you wanna have the same ownership of your identity in the virtual space of your digital self. And and I think that demand... There's lots of ways to express that and lots of technologies to make that decision happen and to some extent for a lot of these platforms. It's a business decision in in a technology decision. It's not a...

You know, it it it it's not a religious decision. Like, some people like to make out the application of these technologies to be. But, you know, I I think that there's a role that these technologies can absolutely play. You know, when our Bloomberg Med index, we've included Coinbase, you know, we think Coinbase kind of will serve as you know, the Paypal of a lot of these technologies, you know, enabling, you know, mass consumer adoption of of of of payments through blockchain and N t's and crypto. And that's that's why Coinbase base is included in our index.

And, you know, I think you guys have a lot of payments exposure as well and your fund and You know, I think as as as the space develops, we'll see what other types of companies evolve. I mean, we've had a lot of conversations as well Y, and you said it in the first episode. The companies that are gonna dominate and lead the meta potentially don't exist today yet. You know, we look at companies like Roadblocks and Unity that are ahead of the pack today, but who knows what this space looks like in ten years. When the Internet was started, we didn't know what Facebook was.

And here we are today. And and so, you know, it's it's it's gonna be a crazy ride, and I'm excited for it.

Speaker 2: Yeah. You know, Amazon was born, I think, nineteen ninety six, Google nineteen ninety nine. Two thousand and five, Facebook. Right? Instagram.

What's up. Came later. Snapchat came later. I think the what's incredible and promising to me about the med is both as a user spectator, but also as a as a company builder in the space, I think what's most exciting is I believe the rate of change, the rate of innovation is going to continue and accelerate. And I think a lot of that is gonna be because of these fundamental technologies either decentralized or at the infrastructure level we'd what Is doing or at the platform level, and I think it's so refreshing to be building something new because think about these massive platforms like epic like roblox, and others like like Meta, they now need to think about how they reinvent themselves or has they how they are going to evolve into this new era, in a way, it's a much quote unquote simpler to just start fresh, start from scratch.

I would be kind of a bit provocative and say, I'm sure to some extent Mark Zuckerberg group had to think as a fee starting something from scratch to do the bold moves that he had to do because there's no other way to explain the rapid movement of a trillion dollar company almost. And even if it's less than a year of making this transformation of the company, in defining itself as a matter company first and then calling itself meta, you know, obviously very admirable cadence of execution. But... And and I go back to that point, Matthew that you've mentioned. Yes.

I believe a lot of the greatest in weakest companies in the med wider space ten fifteen years from now are... Either hasn't be... Haven't been born yet or being born now.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I I wanna talk first about, like, the N side of things because we talked a little bit about it before the podcast too and then On, like, the the the companies that may become leaders of of the meta. So, you know, in terms of N t's, the divide between digital collectible and N t's is not super clear for a lot of people, but I think there is an important difference. Digital collectible have been out there since the two thousands, I mean, even web based games like Neo pets, you could collect different items and buy items for for your avatar, and some of them were even unique to you. But it...

That that was never able to be done in a secure and identity based manner. And I think one of the things N entities have done, whether they're in a bubble or not, is allow people to attribute certain items to themselves and to provide a record to everyone else that that item is theirs and, you know, what they had paid for it and, a a lot of that... Those other details in in in the metadata. The economy for digital collectible, like, what Valve was doing with games like team fortress too or what they still are doing. Games like T two, Cs go is massive when they onboard, their in house economic minister, former economic minister of Greece, it was already doing a billion in turnover.

And I think that was in twenty thirteen. So digital collectible as a stand alone have grown significantly. And when you apply some of the things that N nxt do, like unique identity blockchain based transactions. The market as collectible are mapped to N entities is going to be massive. And I think that's where the real opportunity lies.

And what they also allow you to do is tackle that interoperability protocol of the of the meta. If you own skin and fortnite, you can't bring it to your character in you know, an Mmo, for example. But n entities will allow you to do that. It'll be a single item that has functionality in multiple different experiences. And I'm I'm I'm looking forward to see if companies emerge that tackle that solely or if that's the domain of, fang and tech giants that that try to take a stab at that interoperability standpoint.

And I think that's a good segue. The the second point of what Jan was making. Of a lot of companies that that will create the meta, not currently existing yet. I think there's a couple ways to look at this one is the largest companies have the capital to deploy to build the med risk. Mark Zuckerberg said, in no uncertain terms that operating expenses will increase throughout the whole decades starting at ten billion dollars in the current year.

Explicitly from meta investments, and that kind of earth some investors initially, but I think people have really come around to his vision and the amount of Honey that Facebook is going to be able to throw at this. Almost every large tech company, really Apple, Google, Microsoft has announced some form of meta strategy. But then on the other side of the coin, you have nimble organizations, and, you know, I wanna give a shout out to, Jan super social that are kind of coming out of nowhere and are building the ex experiences for the meta. You know, they might not be able to build the interchange stand standards and the piping that the meta will need, but they can definitely try to tackle that experience layer, which again is going to be both the outer most and the largest layer of the meta. So that's really, really important.

Speaker 2: I know I know we'll make it when we're gonna be on the f boom.

Speaker 1: Yeah. No. That'll be, I that'll be an awesome day for for for both of us. But, you know, this experience layer is is something that can either be tackled by very large organizations by small teams, again, like super social or by even individuals. Some of the top levels on roadblocks alone are created by single people who do the coding, the design, kind of everything by themselves.

And I think that is the part that is going to level the playing field and have normal people competing with the largest organizations in terms of shell shelf space on that experience layer. Yeah.

Speaker 0: I I I'd I'd I totally agree. You know, and as as we're getting close to, you know, wrapping up here. I I did wanna just give you one last chance to, you know, support some of the things you're working on, you mentioned the the crypto filings you have. We wanna ask any more questions there because that's pretty much all you can say, but anything else in the work at Round hill that our listeners should be watching out for. I think you guys are sitting on the ticker weed also.

If I'm not mistaken?

Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah. We're we're sitting on that ticker. There's a number of regulatory problems, a lot of them, public, for example, banks are refusing the custody those assets, even though there's almost at this point, bipartisan is in agreement that some bill is going to pass. So we're we're cautiously optimistic there, but we also have the ticker meme and we'll be launching a meme stock Etf in the next few weeks.

That Etf is going to be pretty interesting because unlike some current existing products, it's not only going to be based on sentiment, but we're also gonna have a short interest overlay. So trying, not only to target names that are being talked about on some of these forums, but also those that have high short interest and high potential to be squeezed and be even talked about more. And we'll be rebalancing that fund bi weekly to capture that opportunity. And longer term, we also have a couple other funds in the hopper, namely a digital payments, Etf and an e commerce Etf.

Speaker 0: Onwards and upwards for Round hill. Congrats to you and the team. You know, I know Will and. Will probably listen to this, and, you know, they're awesome guys. I remember when it was just, you know, the two of them, your team has grown you know, quite substantially in the last couple years with all these successful fun.

So it's it's really good to see. I still have my nerd. I still have my nerd hat from from the nice when we did the the bell ringing ceremony. That was the day before I got on the plane and moved to Hong Kong.

Speaker 2: I... Mario, Mario, I have a I have a pitch. You guys can think about it. My page is a Avatar G. Basically, any companies that is building the future of direct to Avatars.

Could be, accessories, items, fashion brand, sports. I think it's the next, you know, big frontier of human expression is gonna be Avatar in virtual worlds. I'm calling here for an Avatar Etf. I'm down to talk about it.

Speaker 1: No. I believe me, we're we're looking at an n nlp projects pretty actively. But really quick the last thing I wanna just touch on Jan, Thank you so much for mentioning it. But Avatars, Jensen Wang, in Nvidia last, earnings mentioned almost the entire call was on Nvidia software side. So the omni and their avatars.

And I think five years ago, no one could imagine that the software side for nvidia was gonna be just as important as their hardware side between data center and gaming Gpus. But these avatars, at least according to Jensen, in five years will be present everywhere. Airports, retail stores, coffee shops, kind of everywhere where you can imagine. And they'll be able to have a customizable identity, and we'll be able to do a lot of tasks that will help facilitate brick and mortar commerce greatly. And that's the...

One of the key parts where we say that the meta will bridge both the physical and the virtual worlds is stuff like that, whether it's an alternate reality or whether this is an avatar that is, you know, physically constructed. That's one of the most exciting opportunities, and that's a large part of the reason why Nvidia has such a high weighting in the index in the fund.

Speaker 0: That's awesome. And, you know, it's it... The meta is no virtual reality. It's emerging. It's it's burg today as we've said, it'll take time.

But this has been an awesome discussion. It's been great having you on. That's Mario Stefan, the Vp of Research from Round hill. This has been another awesome episode of into the meta.
                                     
                                 The Outlook for the Metaverse in 2022


Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers, social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta, brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest developments and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the meta.

Speaker 1: Alright. Hey, everyone. Welcome back to into the Med podcast, hosted by Bloomberg Intelligence and their senior analyst, Matthew and myself, Young founder Ceo of Super social. This is the last episode of the year, who would have known when we started twenty twenty one that the meta is is going to become this phenomena, the term that everyone talks about, almost a hundred and twenty references in q four earning calls mentions by publicly traded companies. It's really phenomenal to see the journey we've been through with the med and you know, being inspired by so many thought leaders anywhere from Matthew Bowl, too many, many others that they've started to be thought leaders in this space.

You know, Matthew and I have been fortunate to have a a great group of guests with us in in the first seven episodes that really proud of and And we hope as our audience, you've you've gained a lot of insight, wisdom, thought provoking ideas and perspective on what is the med today where we heading what the med is not. And so we're very excited to kind of do this, recap of twenty twenty one. Podcast and the episode we had and and give you a, a tease at, what what you should look for in twenty twenty two as we get back with more episode in, twenty twenty two, but Matthew, it's been a it's been a hell of a year. Really excited for this last app is a

Speaker 0: it been quite a year. I mean, I feel like at the start of the year, you know, you've been involved in this. I was, you know, you know, trying to understand and wrap my head around this concept of the meta and its investment implications. And I felt like I was yelling in an echo chamber for so long because I felt like no one cared. And then all of a sudden very quickly everyone cared for reasons that we'll get into.

But, you know, it it's it's been quite the the trip and quite the the shift in in, you know, expectations and sentiment and misunderstanding and misunderstanding of what the meta is. So definitely a good time to look back and a good time to look forwards.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent, a hundred percent. You know, it's been it's been phenomenal know to kick off the podcast and bring these guests and restarting to unpack, what a med means for investors, private investors, public investors, what it means for brands for companies for entrepreneurs for creators? What does it mean for the future of humanity for human behavior? What does it mean for different demographics, kids, grown ups elderly. There's just so many things as we think about the med evolving in becoming the the extension of what the Internet has been for many of us around the world in in the past twenty five, thirty years.

So Matthew, bringing bringing back our first question that we we seek to answer every episode you know, as we started from the first episode. How is how is your definition or our definition of the meta changed, or evolved during twenty twenty one. And and based on the conversations we've had, how is that shaped your definition of of the meta?

Speaker 0: I think for me, it's just the Nuance and being able to more coherent define this such broad concept, You know, And in the beginning, I had trouble you, I was using what it is and and kinda talking about the meta qualitatively, but, you know, having talked with Mark Petite from epic games and and a few others, like, Craig from roadblocks, and even, you know, when we spoke with yeast and just having fun. Right? You know, defining the meta, it's the Internet enabled by real time three d. And on the last earnings call, you heard Unity Ceo, John Talk about, you know, today, only two percent of the Internet's enabled by real time three d software. In ten years he thinks that'll be fifty percent, and that is the meta.

And I think that's the most coherent definition of the meta that I've have heard and that's kind of where I've stuck to in the last several months and and even over the course of the year. And, you know, I I think and it's a point that you made over and over, you know, it alongside what is the meta versus is what is not and I think particularly with one company tying the concept of the meta to Vr headsets into virtual reality into goggles. It's especially important that it's not any individual device, especially a Vr headset. The meta is the Internet. It's an insanely broad definition, but, you know, the...

It's device agnostic. It's access agnostic. And I think that's an, very important point for you know, refining the definition as well.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. I totally echo what you're saying, and I... You know, from from my vintage point, you know, I I I jumped into the med, no pun intended about... A year and a half years ago. You know, when we started super social in in around May twenty twenty, I remember being fascinated by the piece that Matthew Bowl wrote about, you know, what is the med person and who's is gonna build it?

Which to a lot... To a large extent laid out a lot of the foundations of of some of my earlier thinking about the med and and really realizing that, we're talking about the new frontier, But I think what was abundantly to me already at that point of time a year and a half ago was that the meta is going to reimagine our life in virtual spaces. It's been incredibly profound to see how human behavior has been impacted by the Internet. It's been incredibly rewarding for a lot of companies and creators to be able to build applications on top of technology that now billions of people interact around the world. And I think what Got be excited as we enter Covid around March April last year, of course, I was not excited about a pandemic, but would got me excited and what triggered my brain to move in that direction was the understanding that at that point of time, majority half maybe more of humanity's population has been glued to screens and being and being and being anchored inside their homes, that includes billions of young people around the world or we're out of school.

And I think at that point of time it became a abundantly to me that whatever the meta is, it's going to be an extension of reality because we're gonna be spending our life more and more in virtual spaces on phones, on Pcs. I think very soon they're gonna be displays everywhere. There's gonna be displays. In autonomous vehicles. They're gonna be displays in in planes.

There are gonna be displays everywhere we go. And so we are going to manifest our existence and our life. More and more into these immersive virtual spaces. And I think to add to what you said and what we talked about at planks in the podcast this year about the med being the evolution of the Internet, and essentially the next frontier of human experiences over the Internet, what it means to me is a paradigm shift in human behavior. And specifically, what I think is really important is the fact that we are going to manifest our existence are being, our personalities, our characters, our aspirations, our desires, we're going to manifest these into these little avatars that that run around these virtual worlds, and the beauty is that we are not even gonna have one identity.

One human beings in real life can have multiple entities in the universe. And that opens up so many possibilities. You can be Avatar with one personality at night. You can be Avatar. With the second personality in the morning.

You could probably have multiple jobs in the med. I think the whole notion of a job and what do you do for living is gonna is gonna be... Is gonna be changing because I'm gonna ask you, Matthew, when you ask me what am Doing for my living? What living is that? Is that living in the real life or you're talking about me living on the rob roblox universe or me on on on a, with my inter interrupt identity that is running between multiple virtual spaces on blockchain.

All of these things are going to change and morph into this new completely world. And lastly, what that means it's gonna open up whole new ecosystem. Of services. And every industry around the world, Every industry around the world is not only gonna be impacted by the emergence of the universe, but it's going to have to rethink what does the existence of the matter means for us? And I think it's anywhere from, of course, consumer products to entertainment to media, to health to financial services.

What does it mean to provide financial services to an ava avatar? What does it mean to have customer relationship management with an Nav avatar, someone who doesn't even look Real has a pseudo name and doesn't have an email address. He has a wallet. Right? So if all of these things are going to morph and change.

And I think it's fascinating that it's unknown and what's beautiful. And this is why I think there's so many definition at the moment the med. Everyone around the world is starting to create their own interpretation of what the med mean. I'm a big fan of this saying, the best way to predict the future and is to invent it. And that's what I'm trying to focus on with with my efforts and and and super social is to invent and create the future that we believe on.

We believe in. And what's amazing is there is all of these incredible companies that I know we're gonna touch upon today that are building the underlying technology, the fundamental infrastructure it's just mind blowing to think what can be built over the coming years, and and I'm I'm so grateful that we had the opportunity to start tapping into some of these things. You know, with with with the podcast.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. It it's it's been quite a year and, you know, as we look back, you know, I think I think the answer might be obvious and, or, you know, maybe you maybe it'll come up something different, but I feel like I'm tee you up since I'm giving it to you first. You know, in terms of looking back at twenty twenty one for you, what was the defining moment for the meta and and and and why?

Speaker 1: That's a great question. You know, I think there there... I would say there are two there are two defining moments, I believe for the this year. There is the more populist defining moment, which I would refer to as the introduction of Facebook with their new brand name as Meta. And the reason why I believe that was a defining moment is because I think it really took the conversation to a use strat here.

It took it from a place of technologies and and some, media outlets that are covering it and entrepreneurs and creators And it took it to completely new public conversation and discourse, where if you have a trillion dollar almost company, that change its name to Meta. I think that really contributed, especially at a both public company level. I think way more public company started pay attention and also public with with regards to just people. Regular people who are everyday consumers of the Internet. Really started to ask himself, wait.

What is this meta saying? What is going under there? I think the downside of that was that, suddenly, the med created a perception that it's about Facebook that it's about Meta. And also the the meta is something you access through goggles or or or headset through Vr. And and as you and I kind of clearly been saying and and continuing to argue, the is not a device, it's not something you access through a certain device.

The meta completely device agnostic. So I think that's kind of one defining, moment. And I think the the other... Really interesting defining moment in my opinion is the the Dip ipo of rob roblox. I think Rob roblox going public was really the the the gene wind defining moment of the med because...

And I'm not saying it just because I'm very bullish about Rob roblox as a platform. And I'm not saying it because I'm building a whole company that he's focused on rob robots at this stage. I'm saying it because when the med just started in terms of a concept the year and a half ago, which first thought leaders, Rob roblox was a publicly a private company with four billion dollar valuation. Fast forward to March twenty twenty one, when War roblox did their Ipo, their their direct listing, Rob roblox now is trading at about sixty to seventy billion market cap. And what Rob roblox did, they essentially introduced the concept of a consistent meta platform a really unified environment where you can build, launch and monetize massive large scale three d game worlds that are also accessible to a new generation.

And and and most fundamentally, roblox is also sort of in a way, not only a consistent meta platform. It's also the Internet homepage for a new generation of users of the Internet. These young people around the world I think at one point of time, eighty percent of the North American population below thirteen has been on the Roblox platform. And so again, to summarize, I think one defining moment, March April this year, Roblox directly listing staying becoming a publicly traded company and everyone really starting to pay attention to the matters, and then Facebook changing its name to met a couple of months ago really created a much wider discourse, especially with public companies and with the wider global population.

Speaker 0: You obviously, you hit the I obvious one which I was going for which was Facebook, and you even took my second answer, which I was gonna come back with is roblox listing. So I do have a three and a four, but they're probably not as good you know, since you took my top two. I think, you know, for me, the the the two that I'll look at then, roblox is most recent earnings report. And then also, like, the November stats they just put out. And I think what's most encouraging from those numbers and we'll dive into roblox a second more deeply, but the engagement everyone and myself included, I thought this would all fall off...

Not fall cliff, but it would definitely normalize to some degree out of twenty twenty into twenty twenty one. You know, the economic reopening in the West was pushing ahead. There was light at the end of the tunnel to a lot of the the pandemic in many markets. Obviously, that's a little bit in flux right now, but, you know, there was there was a lot of signs saying people are gonna go back to the normal way of life. So Roblox is gonna be a net negative as people go back to that.

And what's been most encouraging is that, actually, the the average time spent per daily active user has actually kept going up. Even even with this reopening with people quote and unquote going back to normal. So that's the most encouraging sign that I've seen that the meta is becoming entrenched in in the new normal, and it wasn't just a passing fad as a function of not being able to socialize physically. And, you know, I I looked at the numbers for November and in our October and in the last quarter. And, you know, basically, the on average a daily active user on Roblox spends three entire days per month on the platform.

Seventy two hours a month. That's amazing. When you just think about how many hours in a month, there are, how much other things there are in the world. And and so when you start to think about the amount of engagement that this platform has how sustained and growing, even with all of these, you know, negative pressures that you can talk about. That's one of the most encouraging signs that I've seen.

This is a real thing. That there's real demand for this virtual socialization that... That... And that this isn't gonna have legs beyond just a physical need for it during a very terrible pandemics pandemic. So that that was part a for me.

And then the other thing I'll just mention, you know, taking it back to the financial markets and we had Mario on our last episode, and he was fantastic, but the listing of a of an Etf in the United States with a ticker meta. I mean, obviously, they got a big benefit when Facebook changed name, but I think that's a big waters moment because, you know, when you see them mat Etfs come out like this. You know, that can really help to shift narrative and really attract attention. And I think that was also a big moment for the meta as well, you know, giving investors something to lynch, you know, lin in on and really kind of you know, you know, kinda look at as a benchmark for for the med going forward. So I thought that was also a really important moment.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. And, you know, and anecdote to support, which you just said, Matthew, I remember talking to a friend of mine, earlier dc see around January, February. And she's based in the northeast, and she told me, finally, she took the kids and they... She has for kids and they they went outside to the playground and the... It's it was very snowy you can imagine, you know, in Northeast in in January, February.

And after being outside, you would imagine with Covid. Oh my god. It's so far is family to be outside, and and she told me that after ten or fifteen minutes of being in the playground, one of her kids, I think he used these seven or six or seven told her You know, Mommy, can we go back home? I wanna... I wanna be on roblox.

And this is where an it hit to me that all the conversation around oh, once people go back to school, once kids go back to school. Everything will go back to normal. You're gonna see a massive drop of usage. And that quote, that sort of story for my friend really articulated to me that it's not gonna happen. Because what happened with Covid and with the acceleration of the meta emerging.

Is that there is a whole generation now of young people, millions of millions of millions of people around the world who this is the new reality for them, and it's never going back. They have the paradigm shift has already happened. Now it's how do we create a better world for young people that can manifest to the best ability, the real world and how do we merge the two together? I think the meta will only be as successful as it as we connected it to the real life and making sure that we don't lose our human touch, human connection, human identity it not only critical for human survival, but it will amplify ultimately what the meta, you know, could be. And and and lastly, on that, as someone that is based in Columbus, Ohio where apparently in twenty forty nine, you know, ready player.

One is happening. I don't envision the future of the world is a as a dystopian I envision the future of the world is a Utopia, and and and and and and I don't believe that the meta should be a place that he's, about es. I I really take I really take a lot of signals from companies like N who are building sort of these real life universe with Ar and connect activity to the real world. I think all of these things need to be built together, and we need to make sure that we don't alienate ourself from the real life because the real life is a big part of humanity, and it will continue to be a big part of humanity.

Speaker 0: It's also in in Columbus, Ohio also the place where it's been about seven hundred fifty days since Ohio State be Michigan now. Sorry Had to have to think that you had.

Speaker 1: I know you had to add it.

Speaker 0: You know, I I think one of the other things that people are trying to wrap their heads around is just you know, because the definition of the meta can get so broad. Right? It's the Internet, which is literally everything. You know, how big is this in terms of dollars? And what...

What's really at stake here? You know, we've put out our market size forecast, which, you know, puts an eight hundred billion dollar number on it. Tim Sweeney says this could be trillions. Matt Paul said the meta adverse economy could be... I I believe it was fifteen to thirty trillion dollars and by twenty...

You know, by... In a decade, these numbers are huge. And and and and I think that that just, you know, underscores the scope of what's going on. Right? This is...

And it goes back to the definition. Right? This is not just a Vr experience because you don't get anywhere close to those numbers. With Vr experiences, what whether you're looking today, ten years from now, whatever, You know, the the the vision for this the the way that these numbers come into scope is is by... You know, it it...

It's it's taking this this concept and applying it all the different businesses that you talked about, you know, whether it's the Crm software for the avatars, whether whether it's, you know, people just building experiences that bringing the creator economy talked but used about and into the med. Right? All of these things together collectively or what create this value create this economy. And and and and that's why it gets so exciting because, you know, it it does tie back to the definition, but, you know, these numbers do get huge because of because of just how broad based this trend, this movement is going to be.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. And I think given the possibilities to reimagine so many industries, Matthew around the world. As we said earlier, every industry is going to be rei imagining what it means in a future where the meta exist. And when you think about it in that respect, I think today when people talk about... I think when when when when Bloomberg and the research you've done, is talking about eight hundred billion.

I think it's it's still in the realm in my opinion of that sort of entertainment, adjacent services, gaming and so on and so forth. I think when we talk about the meta as really the evolution of the Internet, it's really, like, going back twenty five years ago and asking, and hearing people saying that the Internet is gonna be a fad. No one is gonna really go and check it out. I think there's definitely still a lot of skepticism in around the world. That is that is natural.

There's obviously a lot of skepticism around what the meta, Oh, you're talking about the Internet. So, okay. So there's gonna be some three d stuff. How is that gonna matter too much? I very much subscribed to a world that the med could introduce trillion of trillions of dollars of about of of opportunity because it would impact essentially almost every economic activity that is happening around the world.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. I mean, if you look at the Internet, every industry got up and and revolutionized by the Internet, every industry got up and revolutionized by mobile and cloud. They all... The same thing with social, and the meta versus the next tech platform that's gonna revolutionize industries and how companies interact with consumers across the board, and that that's that's that's just, you know, why it's so exciting because it's going to be everywhere. So dive diving into, you know, I I know in the first episode, we kinda did a primer on the meta And again, if you know, if you're new to our, you could...

You, all of our podcasts are available on Apple and Spotify and on the Bloomberg terminal, but, you know, you can go back and listen to kind of the overview we gave of some of the key players I thought it'd just be a good opportunity to come back and take a look at kind of, you know, who did the most to advance the meta in twenty twenty one to drive the development to drive us towards this vision. Obviously, there's a few key leaders, some of whom we've had on the podcast in in recent weeks, but you know, any anyone in particular come to mind that you wanna call out?

Speaker 1: Yes. I think there has been a lot happening in the world of startups and corporations, definitely important to highlight some of the companies in my opinion that are building really the underlying technology of the med and and ideally, the open universe where there is interoperability and connectivity among all these platforms. The companies, I think that are worth calling out in terms of, underlying platform in my mind is, you know, of course, rob roblox, with with with the consistent ben platform that they've built for a new generation, of of creators and new generation of consumers, and you can see the the rush of a lot of brands and companies and and developers coming into the Robust platform. I think epi games with their collection of properties, if it's fortnite that in and of itself could become a med and a platform, And, of course, Dia Unreal engine that he's, you know, arguably the most advanced game engine elder there and one should only look at what they've recently accomplished with the matrix experience that they've created, which is really, really inspiring and mind boggling and this is where we're heading. Right?

These type of virtual environments will be available in the universe for us to roam around as as as people as avatars. Unity has been making steps stored. The med, of course, being such a profound game engine, with its with its success with mobile developers, Of course, Facebook and and they're transition to Meta and what they're doing with Facebook reality labs, Microsoft and Nav nvidia, are both, I think at the enterprise level are going to be really important players in the matters. Microsoft also has X xbox, which is interesting to see how slowly of the years. They're going to connect that to a meta first conversation.

Nav video, although though is very on the enterprise level. I believe they have a distribution platform of games in in the cloud called Go force. I would not be surprised if in the next couple of years, we're gonna hear that Nav nvidia, as some sort of a consumer meta that they're going to introduce. So, you know, watch out for that. And then I think on the brent side, I definitely wanna call out specifically, you know, Nike because they've not only launched a brand world on roblox that shows that they're thinking and they're active, and Think there's definitely other brands that are worth mentioning, And then in in parallel, they've also acquired an N creator studio called Rd artifact.

And and I think... I believe that you put your money where your mouth is. And I think it's inspiring to see a consumer brand like Nike, making those type of investment both on a platform like robo and acquiring a company. And I think this is going to lead to a lot of follow on activities by other consumer brands, and and I can tell you we're seeing it ourselves as as super social.

Speaker 0: I absolutely agree. You know, a a couple of points that I'll make. You you mentioned Nvidia and... This is an interesting one because I think people still think of nvidia as a Gpu company, and that's totally fair because that's the bulk of their business, but when it comes to the meta, Nvidia is not relevant just because they make Gpus and just because, you know, they help you see the meta. But, you know, if you look get at the software stack that they're building.

You look at the potential, as you mentioned for them to build their own consumer meta platform. You know, there's a lot more under the hood than just get Gpus there. And that... That's what's really exciting about Nvidia when it comes to the med. You know, I I also wanna, you know, give a little bit of a local flare here in Hong Kong in in the Greater China region.

You have to look at tencent, You know, nothing really happens in the... Let's call it broadly interactive entertainment space without tencent having its tentacles within it as You know, they're the largest investor in Epic games who's obviously, you know, driving a lot of the investment here. They're an investor and roblox. They They also have their own initiatives internally in their own internal game studios and other meta studios. They're they're clearly gonna put together something quite interesting.

You know, we've talked at length about the opportunity with virtual concerts, Tencent Music is a listed affiliate. It's a subsidiary of tencent. They're already, you know, them in their arrival. Net Cloud village are already pushing ahead with virtual concerts, actually, much more rapidly than Western companies are already. You know, that's already kind of bringing these meta, like experiences to consumers today.

So there's a lot of cool things happening in Asia and China, we look at Korea, you know, neighbor just spun out. You know, it's it's one of its meta apps. They have a couple of them that are competing with each other right now. But this one just raised a lot of money from from an outside investors to spin out separately, Sk telecom, their investment group, you know, basically just said that every investment they're gonna make has to be a med adverse company now going forward. So there's tons of tons of act, and in the Asian side as well.

That's really exciting. And and and and so, you know, you know, it's... You know, a lot of a lot of focus obviously went to Facebook and Meta, and and then we went to the tencent analyst call, the earnings call right after that name change, and, you know, I I I think the analyst on the call need to come back and listen to our podcast because they didn't under understand what the meta versus is or or what this is. You know, they just think it's a game platform it's a Vr headset, and and and that that loses a lot of the nuance and understanding that that that I think we brought to the table, and so, you know, when you think about how prolific tencent has been in, you know, anticipating that changes in consumer online entertainment, interactive entertainment and being at the forefront of it for the last couple decades, you know, they're gonna be a force to be reckon with as this as the meta evolves. And then, you know, I I think one of the other big things that that we've talked a lot about and, you know, Crypto bros.

This this is your time to dial in and really pay attention, but you know, we've talked a lot about the convergence of trends such as blockchain and N t's and the meta This is something that I get a lot of questions about. This is something that I get a lot of bad questions about. And and and and it's really important to kind of dissect, but you know, Y and I'll put it to you first, and then I'm happy to follow on. How does how did blockchain in N t's and and in these emerging technologies that people people like to call Web three? They like to call decentralized.

How does that fit into your definition of the meta and how and and and and how has your view of these technologies within the meta changed during twenty twenty one during our podcast.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think that Look, let's start with blockchain. In in my mind, blockchain is really the sort of the financial of pieces of the Internet. What it really does, it gives a stake of ownership on a digital asset. And that could be inside the game that could be a piece of artwork that could be a music piece.

Really, I think ultimately, anything on the Internet is now can now be financial. And I think that's exciting. That gives a sense of ownership that give a stake of wealth that is based on a digital asset. That is really, really profound. Having said that, in my mind, that doesn't necessarily mean it has to be about a med.

I think that is more profoundly about the web. That is more profoundly about the Internet as an infrastructure. Until today, you know, echoing what people, like And others are saying, The first generation of the web was about reading. The second generation of the web was about reading and writing, producing content that ultimately became the ownership of their centralized platforms like, if it's, you know, a platform like Facebook or or Instagram or Tiktok and Youtube and so on and so forth. And I think we're moving to this kind of third generation of the web which is dubbed web three that really gives everyday users everyday creators, the ability to own pieces of the Internet and to own the content that they create.

This in my mind, will have profound implications about economy and about the ability of people to create new type of career jobs and wealth creation prospects for themselves. I do believe that that sort of financial centralization of of of digital assets is going to be connected directly to the med because I believe they're going to be meta opportunities, meta environments where you can not only be part of these immersive three d multiplayer worlds and environments if it's gains or or concerts and so on and so forth that are immersive where you can live with your avatar or multiple identities. Definitely, that's going to be connected to that. But I think web three and financial commercialization of digital assets in P goes beyond that. And I think there's gonna be elements that are directly correlated with the universe, and there's gonna be elements that are not.

But I do not think in my mind that Web free or the third generation of the Internet. Of the web is the med. I think those are two distinct concepts at the moment in my mind that can... That really correlate and can leave together But each of them has their own profound implications, opportunities, and the paradigm shift that they're gonna have on human behavior.

Speaker 0: I totally agree and and one other thing that I'll add, it's it's come up in a lot of the conversations I have with investors. You know, as soon as they think blockchain N, They think interoperability and bring being able to bring elements of your avatar to different experiences. And for a lot of people, whether it's because they don't understand or because they've been zeitgeist sit into it, they think that interoperability is only achievable. With blockchain and N t's. And, you know, I think it's important to make the point that that's not the case.

Right? That's a technology decision to enable a business. The business decision first his interoperability, we talked about this with Craig when we had our roblox episode. Right? You know, if if if they were at a point today where they wanted to enable interoperability.

They could, and they could do that without blockchain and T's. And then the technology decision you make to enable that could be blockchain and N t's, but it doesn't have to be in a lot of investors come to me and ask which platform, which N energy, which blockchain and it's like, you know, and it I also go back to what Yeast was telling us again, about it has to be fun. Right? You're you're asking the wrong question first? You know, the first question is is is interoperability a good business decision for these platforms?

And is it gonna make it more fun? And then if that's the case, then you have to ask what's the right technology for that. And then if the answer is blockchain, then you can ask those questions. So you're kinda two or three questions removed. So from from where you actually want to be.

You've already made a few pre assumptions that may not be valid. And and that's something that I've had a lot of conversations with investors about and you know, I I try to talk them back off that cliff and understand exactly what's going on. Because to your point, I think there's a lot of people that are kind of bringing these terms, these ideas, the meta, the quote unquote web three, blockchain T's together and and s them together and tying them together, as if they all come together no matter what, and I don't... That's not necessarily the case.

Speaker 1: Exactly. And, you know, I think another piece is, I love what you said around in terms of when you when you wanna build something on blockchain or you wanna create this sort of inter interrupt experience, ultimately, especially with an interactive experience or a game. It needs to be fine. It needs to be engaging. There needs to be a reason for people to come back, and it has to be more than just quote unquote the money, even though money is important, but it has to be more than that.

And so I think there's definitely gonna be cases where it's more about the money and there's gonna be cases where it's more about engagement and fun and they're gonna be people who care more about money. And they're gonna be people who care more about the fun. I think that's totally okay. As long as you really understand why you're building what you're building and why would people care about it. And one of the things that I think are also profound the pre at super social we ask yourself all the time is sure.

N entities, crypto blockchain provides enormous opportunities especially when you think about user or player owned economies, one of the thing that we're re asking ourselves a lot is what it is that we're going to build that takes advantage of the uniqueness of what blockchain provides. That is a question that I think not enough people are asking themselves. I expect these to become a more important question as the this technical environment and the possibilities mature And, ultimately, once the first wave of application comes to life, I think it's going... There going to be a, a, kind of a a, a realization that there's some critical questions that needs to be asked, what is going to be an experience that people find meaningful that people find unique and important in their lives. And how do you take advantage of the unique capabilities that Blockchain provides.

And and and to your point, we cannot be the deter about it? Blockchain is a thing. It doesn't mean everything needs to become a blockchain. But I think we're definitely on the right path and on a journey that is a many years journey in my opinion where we're going to slowly slowly discover really, what are the type of application and and value propositions that not only deliver value to people in their lives but also take unique advantage of of the infrastructure.

Speaker 0: Totally agree. And, you know, as as we start to wind down on the episode, you know, I wanna wanna turn from looking back to looking ahead. And as we look ahead into twenty twenty two, it's clear that, the hype cycle is boiling over right now, it's clear that everyone and their mother is trying to be a Med company. Heck even Bai do is now has a Meta platform, and that's a you don't know by bai do because you're not in China. They are the search platform of China, and they have autonomous vehicles.

And now they have a Meta platform. But, you know, as we look ahead, you know, what's your one big prediction for the meta in twenty twenty two or a or a couple big predictions if there's not one big one outstanding.

Speaker 1: Well, you know, I think the gotta be careful with predictions. I like making kind of decade long predictions. But if I... If you're push me against the wall and you you you you wanna you wanna talk about twenty twenty two, I think the the the biggest prediction is that, the the amount of capital invested in med related companies and ventures I think is going to be at least ten x what it's been today. I wouldn't be surprised if we're talking about multi billion dollars of investments and this is just startups and private companies.

I also believe and maybe that's kind of prediction number two that the meta is going to be something that almost almost every Fortune five hundred company Ceo, especially at the consumer landscape but also enterprise software and and potentially the other industries, every almost every Fortune five hundred Ceo is going to have to talk about a conversation and have a conversation about strategy and what does the meta mean for us? I think we're we're looking at a hundred and nineteen references by public company Ceos, in earning calls, that outlined the med. I think the... That's that's probably gonna grow by anywhere from ten to twenty x next year. So these are the couple of things that I believe are gonna happen.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. I... You know, just to your point, Facebook alone is gonna spend ten billion dollars on you know, broadly the horizon and all of the associated technologies, and, you know, some of that's gonna go to Vr and Oc, which may not directly be med, but you know, there's lots of money pouring in. We heard Microsoft outline their plans. So this kinda of ties into my key prediction.

You know, there's companies that we haven't heard from. Around their meta plans. And I think the two that stand out the most to me are Apple and Google. I think that in twenty twenty two, we're gonna get concrete plans from Apple and Google around their meta strategies. You know, I think for Apple, they're under the gone in lots of different avenues of their business, especially the app store distribution, and, you know, I've talked at length about this with on another podcast podcasts and on and everywhere, You know, way recently did a podcast with Joe Kim on game makers you can go check that out.

It's a it's a fantastic conversation, but we talked about App store distribution and one of the things I like, you know, I've I've I've looked back on and and kinda put together in my head is that you know, Epic games is fighting Apple over distribution now because the meta is coming, and they wanna get control over distribution ahead of the meta. And so it's increased... It's it's just as important for Apple because how does Apple remain relevant in the meta as a distribution platform or can they? Or what's their strategy? Does it tie around Ar goggles.

And with, you know, with with rumors of a device coming out there has to be applications that take advantage of that. And it's clear that there's gonna be some sort of a meta play around that. And so I think Apple is going to, you know, lay the foundations of an Apple meta strategy which I think will be quite interesting. And I also think for Google, you know, there's been some reports recently that they've restructured things internally to kind of put assets together into kind of a meta team. It's basically what we saw happen at Facebook before they started talking about med and then rebranded the company.

So I think something similar is gonna happen over there, and they're gonna have you know, a a more streamlined coherent strategy like, we've heard from Facebook Meta. Like, we've heard from Microsoft. So from the public company angle, I... That's that's something that I'm watching. And then the other thing I'm I'm just watching out for is, you know, you mentioned that the number of mentions of meta irreversible surge, extreme amounts.

But I think at some point, we'll start to see the trough of dis as Ga calls it come into play. As I mentioned, the hype cycle was blowing its top off. Everyone is getting in the pool. You know, it it every everyone's rushing in to to get to to claim this to to ride the wave right now, and it's it's it's it's all over the place. Everyone's talking about meta because of Facebook.

But I think in a year, people are gonna look back and be, like, not much has changed. Why was there so much hype over this, and it's gonna go back into kind of the development and focus on the the the key underlying technology development, which you know, as Craig told us Right? We're in the first inning. We're not anywhere close to being done building this stuff. And so, you know, I I think that, one of the most important things that people need to understand is that the hype cycle will inevitably die down.

There's a lot of interesting things going on. It's There's still a long way to go to realize the true vision of the meta and where we're going. And so we have to look through that trough of dis that will hit whether it's... I think it'll be sometime next year, but maybe it'll be twenty twenty three if we get more lockdown downs and people have to go back to using these services even more. But you know, what whatever it is, there definitely be that that that phase where we start to kinda question it and give up on it.

And I think the time where, you know, as investors, whereas as people that are interested in it. If you're looking to start companies in the space. That's when it gets most interesting to me. When everyone's pulling out and everyone's taking starting to say, and that's not for me. I'm gonna go to the next big thing, that's when it gets interesting, and that's when you can really start to lay the groundwork for real success down the road.

Speaker 1: I absolutely agree with you. And I am excited about the point of time next year, if your prediction is correct, and I think there is a high probability. It is I am excited about the point of time where, the hype is slower, the hype is smaller, and the real builders remain excited about the possibilities of what the meta is going to be. I think it's natural. I think it's natural.

And we've seen it every time. We've seen it with the Internet. We've seen it with e commerce. We've seen it with social media. You know, remember, sal, social, local mobile.

Right? I mean, right, web two o, social media, with with mobile, there's there there's there is the occasional, hype... I think we're just living in a world in a point of time where the amount of hyped words and terminology has never been greater. I think the year of the word could be any one between meta, N t's crypto, defy... I mean, really anything goes at the moment.

And so I think it's important to ultimately go back and focus on the fundamentals, which are incredibly exciting, go back and focus on building, application, services, experiences that real people resonate we and love. And ultimately, building things that can also end up becoming of great value to humanity and of great financial value to the builders and to the communities. And and and definitely, the financial centralization of the Internet is is exciting and we'll provide these opportunities. You know, the will introduce opportunities for us to immerse ourself in virtual worlds as Avatars, and and it's really inspiring. We're in the very, very, very early days of this evolution or next iteration of the Internet.

And that is really, really exciting.

Speaker 0: It's exciting times. And and so, you know, with that, we'll wrap up for for twenty twenty one, we'll see you all in twenty twenty two as we go even deeper into the meta.

                               Welcome to 2022 in the Metaverse


Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest development and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the.

Speaker 1: Hi everyone. This is Jan founder and Ceo of Super Social, and Whitney me Matthew Can, my c host for this amazing podcast into the med. We are kicking off on twenty twenty two. And what a kickoff for the year it is? We have so many things, interesting things to share with you.

First, I'd like to start with twenty twenty one as being a defining year for the med as we've covered in our last episode of twenty twenty one. We talk about two defining moments for the in twenty twenty one. The first one is Roblox becoming a publicly traded company, and the second one is Facebook changing their corporate brand name to Meta. But once again, just for our listeners, we wanna circle back on this very important question. What is the med and what it is not to make sure that we're all starting from the same place in twenty twenty two.

And as we covered a lot during twenty twenty one in this forecast, the meta is not a device. You've probably have heard me and Matthew talk about this a lot. You've probably have seen us tweeting about it. The meta is not a device. It's not something you're going to access from your mobile phone.

It's not something you're going to access from a Vr Go or Ar glasses or from a autonomous vehicle by tesla or someone else. The is The next iteration of the Internet, we have all been inspired by thought leaders like Team Sweeney, and Dave Ba suzuki and Matthew Ball, all of whom have been talking about the med for the past few years. And finally, the rest of the world is picking up and joining the evolution of the Internet. And we believe that the meta is really going to be these real time three d persistent, large scale virtual worlds and environments where people are going to spend enormous amount of time doing so many things like playing and working and learning and entertaining, and doing things that we always thought we're only doing any real life. And so We're very excited about that evolution and especially in a world of remote and distributed not just work, but distributed life.

We feel that this decade is going to be phenomenal in terms of what's being built and how we are going to manifest our lives and our identities through these little avatars that are roaming all sorts of virtual world. Some of them are centralized and some of them are decentralized, and we're gonna talk a lot about that as well in twenty twenty two. So, Matthew. Great to start the year with you excited to kick off on an amazing new year for the podcast, gop for it.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. It's been quite an exciting twenty twenty one, and I think there's a lot of exciting things for twenty twenty two. There's also a lot of things. I'm actually cautious about in twenty twenty two, and and we'll get into that in terms of every technology platform development goes through the, quote unquote, twenty hype cycle, Ga is famous for laying this out. You get the big wave of excitement that's usually far too early.

Everyone comes rushing into the gates, then we realize that we've got a long way to go and you get to what they call the trough of dis. And then once we hit that trough, and we've kind of reset expectations, that's when we really start building to the future. I mean, just think about... Smartphones and being able to have a computer in your pocket. You know, that was pictured and rumored for decades before it became a reality.

And so as exciting as this is as interesting as it is as we believe that this is the next platform. This is not the next platform tomorrow. This is the next platform for a decade or more, and it's really important to stay grounded. And so I I do want to kind of, you know, as much as I'm excited, I'm also trying to temper expectations because of all of the great things that happened in twenty twenty one, have shifted expectations and excitement from feeling like we're talking into an echo chamber and trying to get people to listen us that the meta is important. To now trying to walk people back and level set expectations.

It is quite a different tone for me. I think. It's also... I'm looking at the the long view and and playing the long game, and and I think a lot of people need to shift their focus and and stay aligned to where we're going.

Speaker 1: I love. And I agree with you, and I think in a way, almost like twenty twenty one was the year that the meta has arrived as a concept, something that everyone now recognize recognized that is going to be an important part of our future. Now twenty twenty two and beyond is going to be a journey of really realizing and manifesting our desires for what the meta could be, and it's going to be a journey. So I think for our audience listen and carefully to what Matthew just said, it's not going to be a sprint. It's going to be a long marathon, but we definitely wanna have many, many sprints during that marathon, and it's going to be quite natural to assume that there's going to be up and downs in terms of what the meta sees what it's evolving.

There's gonna be a lot of great innovation. There's gonna be a bunch of disappointment. But ultimately, to Matthew's this point I agree with you. It's a journey, and we should all kind of buckle up because it's going to be fun.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And some of the fun that just came out, you know, we're right in the heart of Yes, the consumer Electronic show. I didn't go this year. It's now been two years since I've gone in person. That was the last trip I ever took before the pandemic with Ces twenty twenty.

It's usually quite an event, but Nvidia always announces a lot of great things and We've talked a lot about Nvidia on this podcast as a meta leader with their Omni strategy. They did make a lot of interesting announcements about their Omni platform. I think the most important thing that came out of it is they're really positioning themselves to be a key player in the underlying software stack of the meta and opening up the omni versus as a free software suite to creators, to three d developers, three d designers, think that's really gonna help them take the next step to really put themselves alongside epic games an unreal engine, unity, roblox, as an alternative, you know, especially as you think about how ingrained they are with gamers with game developers, and also with how green they are now with streamers and creators, you know, and and and people going after that creator economy. I really think that what they're doing is gonna put them in a really strong position to be one of those key software stack players going forward. And I'm always a fan of open software and opening up your platform and letting creative people just have fun, and I think they're doing this the perfectly right way right here.

Speaker 1: Yes. And, you know, I think that you touched on a really great point in terms of opening platform, I think, you know, Team Sweeney has obviously being very vocal about the fact that for the universe to really emerge and be realized, it cannot be a similar evolution like what happened with, you know, social media and social platform in the past decade, which every platform has its own ecosystem, and it's a close chamber, and it doesn't connect with one another. I think in the med, everyone has a vision, which I think aligns with what Team Sweeney has been proposing, which is a connectivity and interoperability across platform. And I think he takes on a really interesting point of view where for the meta to really become and realize its potential from a total addressable market in the trillions, we're really gonna have to have these platforms, these different environments if it's Facebook and meta and roblox and epic, and unity, and what happens on blockchain for all of these things to connect together. You know, I think both of us, matthew you share that vision for the world.

And... But it will be a journey to see how that actually happens because a lot of these platforms have been building their own echo chambers and they're very comfortable. They're doing well. I mean, if you look at roblox, they're doing extremely well. But I can tell you also as a developer of experiences for the, I am very much excited in bullish on the world that he's much more collaborative and open.

Together, you know, there is the saying. If you wanna go fast go alone. You're go you want to go far, go together. I think if we go together, the meta has a much greater potential for human elevation than any one platform can provide any own.

Speaker 0: I totally agree, And I I think this is also really important time to make that claim and make the... In and get this out there. Because at the same time, we clearly have other companies that are that have existing social platforms like Facebook Meta platforms and they're trying to, you know, push their vision of the meta as a closed system and try to retain their walled gardens or their or their content fortresses and and and keep people within an ecosystem. And I think it's really important for consumers for developers for investors to think about where we've come with these walled gardens and what done to the Internet economy and the second iteration, The Web two iteration? And for web three, do we really want more of the same do we want this vision of these walled gardens?

I mean, yes, It's insanely profitable if you become the Walled garden, but is is that really what we want, you know, the Internet to look like or do we want... You know, I'm I'm a I'm a proponent as well of the open connectivity of of the Internet and really, you know, enabling the creators, and I really think you know, I... And it goes back to what we talked about with yeast in our episode a few a few episodes ago, several episodes ago now is that consumers vote with their feet and they go where the fun is. And I think that consumers are are getting fed up with Walled gardens and they're getting fed up with, you know, networks that force the content to them. And I think the meta and user generated content in in all of these technologies that are really coming together is is giving them a new way to express themselves in a new way for them to not only find content, but create and engage with things they want to.

And I and I think that that's gonna by nature that that will force us kinda activity and it will help break down these walled gardens. And at least that's my hope because, you know, I I I I think that's what we need in the next iteration of the Internet to make it you know, just a better place to be.

Speaker 1: And I think that, ultimately, with the evolution of the Internet, and we're talking about the med. It's also about human expression. And human connection. Right? When we think about the meta, when we talk about three d real time, massive, large scale environments, we're we're talking about manifesting ourselves, our personalities, our aspirations from the length of an Nav avatar.

And we... As we talked about a lot in in last year, Matthew, we can each have as people in real life, we can have multiple identities and avatars in the med. And and I think putting those avatars in a place where they can represent our aspirations, our creativity if it's playing a game, watching a concert, going to a movie, having a date night, collaborating on a piece of work. All of those things are going to be way more powerful with platform that can connect to one another. And so, you know, I'm very happy to for both of us to continue and be proponents of of that open meta, very much in line with...

With really what a lot of amazing people, entrepreneurs builders are envisioning as well. And I think this is a future where people will be able to get so much more out of the Internet and the med in the future than than today.

Speaker 0: I'm excited also for, you know, I I was alluding to it, but, you know, for the human connectivity is hugely important, You know, who knows when the world will be back to, you know, a quote, unquote, normal. You know, I'm in Hong Kong. And today, we're just going back into lockdown, you know, two years into this for us. And so, you know, who knows when the the normalcy sea will return and, you know, as we're all looking for ways to interact with with the others remotely digitally. The meta is a really interesting concept to enable these connections wherever we are.

But it also doesn't have to be in a screen. It can also be physical real world and, you know, aided and and and enabled by real time three. So... And I think that's all so super promising, particularly as we tie in the creator economy, you know, how how can we make physical concerts. We talked a lot about virtual make physical concerts more engaging, how all these streamers, You know, how can they better engage with with their followers on Twitch with their followers on Youtube and create more engaging class forms for themselves to really, yes, monetize their brand, but, you know, build connections more deeply.

I think, you know, something that Craig Don from Roblox talked about with the virtual concerts, but I think it's applicable to, you know, so many different things out there is every seat becomes a Vip ticket. I think that's a hugely important concept when you're thinking about human connection because you're not just sitting a hundred rows deep in an arena now. You're now... You can be face to face or Avatar to Avatar with with a celebrity with someone that you care about someone that you want to be close with and learn more from. And so I I think that the the ability to create these connections, but really personal connections, much more so than we can today through the computer I think that that's really gonna be a huge driver for consumer demand, you know, bringing people in, bringing people together, and then you start talking about the business opportunities on top of that.

I think they become quite large. You know, we saw it. I mentioned Ces, you know, the the consumer technology association did a a presentation, and it was focused more on the enterprise app locations of the meta versus, the Xr strategy, you know, I think there's a lot of crossover now in terms of the use of the terms, you know, Xr mixed reality and in the meta. But I but I do think that, you know, a lot of what they're seeing as well. It it all it all ties back to how can companies brands better connect with consumers and they do in the current world.

Yes. If you can get someone in a store, you can connect with them. But an e commerce site, social media isn't a very deep personal connection. And so how can you improve that connection to make it more like the real world, and I think the meta versus the perfect solution for that.

Speaker 1: Matthew, I wanna echo what what you just said, which is so fundamental. I believe, You know, we started the year January first. I wrote my annual kind of New year's Ceo letter. And the one thing I was trying to portray there was what I referred to as a meaningful universe. And what I described as a meaningful meta is a place where we can power creativity, foster inc and drive prosperity.

And I think what these three things mean really is number one creativity, we want to enable people to express themselves to be part of things that engage that excite that inspire. When we talk about inc exclusivity, we want the universe to be a place where everyone can feel belonging. We need to use the universe and this incredible platform to create sense of the belonging and a sense of community, especially as you've described, a world where we are continuously continuing to be remote and apart from one another in real life, this is an opportunity to bring people together and bridge gaps and bring different cultures together. There has never been a better time. And then the third piece about driving prosperity.

This is also an enormous opportunity, which we're already tapping into with a new generation of creators. As you know it's super social. We're so excited about working and partnering and building together with a new rising creator generation. This is an opportunity now that everyone is remote. To really sharpen your skill set, decide what do you wanna create what movement you wanna be part of?

It could be building on roblox? It could be creating an n fee and so and and so on and so forth and and really put your talent to work. There's never been a better time to do remotely what you dream of creating. And and those three thing really for me kind of encapsulate what the meta could be as a meaningful environment.

Speaker 0: So you can clearly tell we're not excited at all about this. No. No. I'm kidding. We're we're both extremely excited, and there's there's good reason for it, but as I alluded to in the beginning of the conversation, we are in the middle of the hype cycle, and I'm just pulling up some data on my Bloomberg terminal, using the transcript analysis function for Bloomberg professional subscribers that's Ta go.

To search the term meta, you can see that in the third quarter earning season, it's actually more than when I checked at Last because there's more transcripts added. The term meta was used seven hundred and thirteen times. This includes filings, this includes transcripts. This includes conferences everything. Seven hundred and thirteen times.

That compares to a hundred times the prior... In the prior quarter. In the year ago quarter, it was mentioned a whopping four times. So we've gone up quite a lot. There's a lot of people talking about this.

There's everyone is throwing their hat in the ring, which is super citing. I saw a demo from Walmart about how they envision, you know, shopping in the med and having, you know, virtual assistance. You pick out food. Here's a wine pairing we can suggest. I think there's lots of cool applications of this in the future, but it's entirely evident that there's companies jumping on the bandwagon, throwing out the term.

Heck. I even have had conversations with... You know, we launched our, our our Bloomberg intelligence, meta versus theme basket and we're we're we're talking with fun issuers to create Etfs based on an index that tracks the basket. And, you know, many of them are just, like, look, retail just wants the hype. They just wanna ride the train right now.

I mean, no no one is no one is shy about talking about that we are in the hype cycle, and they wanna ride it. And companies are doing the thing that they think is best for their shareholders. They are trying to talk up prospects and and make themselves attractive investments. I get it, and I get the game. But it's clear that for some of these companies, sure, there's going to be real substance under the hood.

But for some, you know that it's vapor. You know that it's Are these companies gonna be driving the development of the meta because again, this is something that doesn't exist yet? This is something that we're building to and is are these companies the ones gonna be doing it? I think companies like Facebook Meta platforms? I mean, before they change their name before Zuckerberg went all in?

I think we talked about how they had a really promising set of assets in place and could be a significant player in this space, and they came out and said they're gonna spend ten billion dollars a year investing in So I think clearly, they are putting their money where their mouth is. That's a lot of money. That's way more money than than most companies combined are investing in the med right now. The question becomes... Well, they be successful.

I I don't think there's any certainty they will be. But there's lots of other companies out there, and I I won't name names to save face for some of these companies. But you know, there there's clearly names that show up on this list of companies that are talking about the meta and trying to hype it up, where you question it. And and you say, does that make sense we were actually looking at some other indices, some other meta indices that are being used by Etfs and, you know, a couple companies pop up in those Etfs and you're just like, Does Ibm? Are they really gonna be a key player in the meta?

Is that is that a company you think it's gonna be driving this development of this form. I mean, they could. They they they could. But, you know, there there's names that pop up, There's names that are people that are throwing their hat in the ring. And I think it's important for investors for consumers to don't fall for the hype.

Don't fall for the vapor, be att to what's going on and really look through the hype cycle to where the real substances is.

Speaker 1: Well said, Matthew, And I I would just add that I think it's important to focus on the fundamentals and really learn from first sources understand what the meta is really about? What is the journey of realizing the med, learn about the companies, go and actually spend time already things that exist. You wanna learn about the managers, go play a game on roblox. Go jump between experiences, go into Fortnite go to blockchain and and sometime time on the central end and Sandbox. Immerse yourself in these worlds, open a wallet, open a...

Create your own Avatar on on a on a Saturday afternoon, like, really start yourself with some of this platform that already exist, which are proponents of the med and in kind of the lead into realizing the med. And then when you think about publicly traded companies, you, I think it's important again to not only look at the data, but also try and unpack the buzz words. Sure. Everyone is now talking about the universe. Matthew, I think the numbers you've mentioned clearly articulate that now the meta is basically a word that everyone is now talking about.

And that's cool. That's awesome. I'm also excited about when the meta excitement will decrease the beat. So we can really go back to fundamentals, look at who the real builders who are the people that are going to overcome the phase of this solution to use your ga analogy and continue to build while everyone is moving to the next buzz Again, I think I've mentioned last year, everyone remembers Solo. Remember, social, local mobile, great concept, back then when, you know, Facebook just started in in the and the iphone was launched early twenty tens.

I very much hope and would like to believe and and that the meta is not gonna be one of those turns that dissipate into the obese, and I am confident that it it will not because I think the meta side of the technical changes that it provides. It's also a paradigm shift of human behavior. That's why I encourage everyone to go and experiment and play and do things because the universe is about technology as much as it is about human, about human behavior and human expression, and I think it's important. To always remember, ultimately, they're gonna be people behind those application. There's gonna be people who use consumer applications.

There's gonna be people who use enterprise applications, the meta is gonna touch all of those different industries. And so for each of you are audiences individuals, want to really ask yourself, how is the matter going to touch your life? Personally, professionally, creatively. These are the type of question that we believe can help you better understand the med today and where it is going.

Speaker 0: What's the age old saying technology, dis points in the near term and usually outperform our wildest streams in the long term. And I think I think the meta will we'll probably fall into that category. I think a lot of people see this potentially, for some some visions of the meta, I think are actually quite dystopian and scary. You know, if if you do believe that it has to be inside of a Vr headset. I actually think that that sounds not fun at all.

That that sounds quite dystopian and if that's the case, you know, I'm not looking forward to that that vision of the meta. You know. I know, we don't agree on that, but they're are definitely companies and and people out there that that have that vision. And I am excited in the long run. But, you know, one of the other things that I think it ties into the hype.

And we've talked about this at length on the podcast. We've gone in... With Ryan Gill from crucible about N t's and blockchain in the meta and centralized platforms. I think it's clear that there's also a lot of hype and a lot of things built into this this segment of technology of development of it is financed to a degree that is quite not sustainable there's a lot of things that are interesting and exciting and how these technologies tie into the meta for sure. And I think in the end, there will be some part potentially, if not all of the meta will have some of these characteristics built into it, who knows it's still way too far away to actually know.

But You know, I I think there's there's so much demand for ownership of digital identities and digital self that whether it's the tenants, the principles or the actual technologies will make their way into the meta at some point. But Y, you you recently shared some thoughts on on the virtual land sales that are going on, You know, I think there's been a lot of hype around those recently and and how that ties into the meta just thought maybe be a good opportunity for you to share your thoughts what you're seeing there. What's exciting around these, you know, these land sales, but also why you think it also begs cost and in terms of the hype cycle?

Speaker 1: Look, when we talk about the meta as real time three d large scale persistent environments that are happening on the Internet, with that obviously come the realization that they're going to be these virtual spaces that are valuable where people build different experiences. And that means that just, like, real estate in real life, they're going to be spaces lots. Right virtual lens that are going to be valuable. And just like in real estate in real life, it's all about location, location location. And so you can imagine that as these meta environments and virtual worlds come to life.

People are already flock like a gold rush to purchase virtual lens in different platforms. And And I don't think it's necessarily about the platform. It's not about the central and Sandbox roblox. I think the point I want to make is a bit more general, which is Yes. Is it exciting?

Does it make economic sense to invest in virtual lens in the future? Absolutely. If we're gonna leave in the med in the form of avatars and we're gonna jump around between different places. There's going to be a meta downtown. There's going to be meta cinema.

There's going to be all sorts of meta environment and experiences where the land and the value of the land will increase. Having said that, because we're in such an early stage of the meta, and it is yet unclear which platform exactly are going to be the most relevant. The most attractive. I think he bears a bit of caution when people think about Oh, my God. I'm missing on an opportunity to go and spend and buy virtual lands on on a...

In in those different environments that are running on blockchain, and I own these assets and it's going to be worth a lot. Yes, you might come across a few virtual opportunities where the land will be worth a lot of money. But at the moment, we are still working. And when when I say we, I mean, the builders, the platform, the creators were all just trying to build things that ultimately people are actually going to want to engage with and come back. And just like in real life, if you buy a piece of real estate in a neighborhood where no one comes to the neighborhood Your real estate is not gonna be worth a lot of money and you know that.

But if you're gonna buy a piece of real estate in Soho, New York, then you've obviously made a great purchase decision. The issue is that so New York hasn't been built yet in the med, and we don't know exactly the length of time it's going to happen. And so just be cautious out there when you purchase virtual lens, don't necessarily feel like, oh my god, you're putting your money in into the right place and be very deter about it. So we kind of wanna propose caution. It's unclear yet which platforms are gonna be the winners.

It's unclear what exactly are the type of experiences that people are gonna want to come back again and again too. And so therefore, make sure you're being cautious with now. You spend about these virtual lands and understand that we are in the very, very, very early stages of that.

Speaker 0: I think the flip side to that, If you if you wanna take the positive view is that it's early, it's Nascent, it's not bill. So if you're coming in and buying land in a virtual world, you have the opportunity to have the entire plan the entire city plan of how do you make your land soho. How do you make it the the the hip, the hot area. And and so, you know, if you come into it with a plan already in place, how you think this can really become interesting in a place for people where they want to hang out and socialize virtually. That can help you stand out ahead and really make that a worthwhile investment.

And so I I totally agree. I think there's a lot of things out there right now. I think it's just the state of where we are in the financial markets. You know, there's a lot of greed in the market, and and I think N nxt in crypto as a whole is is definitely reflecting that to various degrees and, you know, clearly you wanna be cautious when it comes to that. But if you have a real plan, if you if you really can think about this ahead of time, and not just come into it with financial motivations, but really start building.

I think there's a lot of ways that you can turn that into something really promising down the road. And just, you know, we're tying this in today, you know, because it's it's something that our listeners obviously care a lot about, but we also saw that open c the the N marketplace just raised quite a lot of money. I believe the the they're they're raising three hundred million dollars at a evaluation of thirteen point three billion dollars according to tech crunch here. That's quite a lot of money, a Series c financing round led by paradigm in c two. I mean, I don't I don't even know what to say.

They've You know, they've... They... They've done quite a lot of volume. I mean, you you have to give them tons of credit for what they've built so quickly. In the last thirty days, they've done about two point nine billion dollars of of volume of of n t's according to Da radar.

If you annual analyze out that's thirty five billion dollars on an annual basis. So so clearly, they're doing lots of that... Lots of transaction volume, lots of interesting things. But obviously, Y, I think, you know, we were chatting before we started recording clearly with a with a valuation that that large. There's more at play than just being an N nxt market place.

And I think what we've talked about in the past and how crypto assets N t's digital identity plays into the meta think that's gonna be a big part of them being able to grow into that valuation.

Speaker 1: The important thing here for me is that first of all congratulations to the open team, what an incredible journey and execution, jumping from one point five billion private valuation to thirteen and a half billion extraordinary. As a as a founder and an entrepreneur, I salute the team and, you know, well down guys. In terms of what it means, look, I think companies like Coinbase based, like Open and others there's going to be a real a real fight on who is going to have the most important direct relationship with users as we embrace open meta and decent centralization. And really, the question is, what is going to be the key gateway into the. And and I think that's why I believe you see these level of investments.

I think that's why you see these valuations. Having said that, opens is a young company, and I I am certain that at least in the near term, they will continue and focus on their core business as a marketplace. It takes a long time to build a great business and it's important for them most likely to continue and focus on on that marketplace piece, especially as we know, Coinbase base have have launched in sort of limited access their own N marketplace. Are now starting to see other more niche marketplaces of N entities like fractal for gaming N entities. So I think this whole N entities marketplace piece is is exploding.

Ultimately, the bigger question is gonna be how are we going to access the matter, What's gonna be the key gateway? And I think there's dozens of dozens of platforms at the moment? That are trying to tackle it from different places. You know, we talked about forte and mythical last year. It's going to be really interesting to see who are the two or three market leaders when it comes to identity in the med.

When we talk about open platforms. And then most importantly, I am still, you know, the question mark that we talked about earlier today at what point of time, these open environments and and and sort of meta identities on blockchain connect with some of the closed platforms like Roblox. That's a big Tb and and meta as well. That's a big Tb. Which I am very curious to see how it plays that.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And and the and the last thing I wanted to discuss so we can wrap up today today's episode is You know, again, it's something that we talked about with yeast and it always comes back to me because I think I totally lost sight of this for a while thinking about opportunities, businesses, you know, revenue, all these different things that you can see happening, and you can lose sight of the fund. And I think that we can't do that. Because if we lose sight of fun, we end up with what we have. And I don't really know if there's a good way to avoid this.

But for people out there that are building these experiences for investors looking out there, take a step back for a second, go in and play roblox, go in and actually experience these things and just figure out if they're fun. Because if you're not having fun with it, And maybe it's not your demo. Ask your kids to go do it? Because if it's if it's if it's roadblocks or something that's, you know, for a younger audience, have them go in. If they're not having fun, is this really gonna be sustainable, it could be a great business model, but it's gotta be fun.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent agree Matthew and to take a a phrase from last year's episode with Ryan Gill, the meta in a way is the Internet build by game developers. And if we think about it from that point of view, really we are at a stage where a lot of the meta experiences that we're gonna see over the next couple of years, I believe will still relate to game worlds, game experiences play experiences overall. And I think that will really open up possibilities for other industries and gaming has always been at the forefront of technology. So it's also not gonna be a surprise at all if the next eighteen twenty four, maybe even more month we'll still be focused on meta experiences in the form of game worlds and play experiences.

Speaker 0: Totally agree. So with that, we'll wrap up. We've got you a short little episode today. We'll be back in our next episode, we'll go much deeper into N t's, blockchain, inside of virtual game worlds and how those experiences can elevate the meta. So stay tuned for more great content and have a great twenty twenty two.
