
Speaker 0: Ninety five people believed that virtual would be everywhere within five to ten years.

Speaker 1: Where you one of those believers?

Speaker 0: I was. Over the last twelve to eighteen months, the largest companies the world have have realized this

Speaker 2: is important for their consumer business.

Speaker 0: Be your planning in near future with the med as a significant part of it.

Speaker 2: You started the foundation for what we now call out augmented reality. And now you are operating with the field of artificial intelligence.

Speaker 0: Ai have access to our personal history that knows it likes, tendencies, it knows how we're most likely to be persuaded. It's reading our facial expressions, maybe even our heart rate, and blood pressure. There needs to be some gore rails who plays because Utopian vision could get distorted.

Speaker 2: Hi. I'm Nick Rosa from Accenture,

Speaker 1: and I'm Daniel K from A Xr. This

Speaker 2: So, Louis, you are one of the pioneers in a field of augmented and virtual reality. Tell us a little bit more about your career and your beginnings.

Speaker 0: So I got involved in the med over thirty years ago back at the early beginning. I started as a researcher at Nasa working on virtual reality vision systems, and so my first work was to model inter intra ocular distance or the distance between your eyes, writing software and spending a lot of time using the various vision systems, And I was immediately captivated by the potential of virtual worlds. I felt confident that was gonna change society. And so I was very excited from the start. At the same time, spending lots of time in in virtual virtual reality.

They also didn't like being cut off from the real world. I felt like the experience was amazing, but I also felt like it was isolating from my natural experiences. And so the real first thing I felt was I wish I could take the power of Vr and just splash it all over the real world, and this was back for the phrase augmented reality was in use. I pitched it to the Us air force, and I was fortunate enough that they funded me to build the first really functional augmented reality system. It was called the virtual fixtures platform.

A crazy system it required about a million dollars with the hardware. It had a vision system hanging from the ceiling. It had a big exoskeleton that that people would wear. You might have seen pictures of it. The skeleton would track your hand motions and feedback hap feedback.

And so this was a a fully functional system, meaning it was the first time people could reach out and interact with a really a mixed reality of the real world in the virtual world together where you could have a virtual object bump into a real object and and have this true augmented reality mixed reality experience. And and so that was, again, a a great, really a a great experience for me and really got me even more excited about the field, but really the most important thing to my career was that that was a a set of experiments where I've brought in all kinds of people just off the street to to experience it because I was running research studies to see if if augmented reality could enhance human performance So these people would come in they'd get into the ex exoskeleton. They would do the tests. And then and then every single one of them would get out and say, oh, like, that was amazing. This was, in nineteen ninety.

Too thirty years ago. And and so I didn't think it would take thirty years, but I did feel like reality and augmented reality would to change the worlds and so I went back to Silicon Valley, and I founded a company called Immersion Corporation, which was one of the early Z companies. And We built somewhat really the first virtual reality simulators for medical schools where doctors could train in Vr and and the company kept selling them for decades. Immersion went public in nineteen ninety nine. I think it's the oldest reality company in the world from the early days.

I founded my current company, Unanimous Ai, which is an artificial intelligence company that focuses on amplifying group intelligence in shared environments, and really focused stuck on the human side of things

Speaker 2: in the second part of our podcast when we're gonna really deep dive into this potential danger of the matter. I would like to go a little bit back and some stories about the early days, the real early days about augmented in.

Speaker 0: Reality got it. It's real start in the late eighty. I was fortunate enough to to get into a lab at Stanford called the center for design research. Which had had a handful of other researchers looking at reality, looking at tele, augmented reality didn't exist Back then, we would think of current technology is television, and people had spent decades, learning about frame rate and learning about the other basic per perception capabilities that what kind of frame rate do you need to... So television looks smooth back in the late eighties early nineties, people with asking those same questions about immersive worlds.

What kind of update rates do you need so that when you move your head, you don't get nauseous, What kind of how accurately do you have to build a model inter rock distance to get the depth perception. All of these your really basic parameters were under where research topics. Back then, between ninety two and ninety five. Virtual reality really took off in the public consciousness. And people don't really realize that.

Like, People today, at least, they don't realize that in nineteen ninety five, virtual audio on the cover a wired magazine with, with statement saying, this is the next big thing. People really believed back then. Eighty five, people believed that virtual would be everywhere within five to ten years.

Speaker 1: Well, you one of those believers?

Speaker 0: I was. When I founded my first Vr company, which was nineteen ninety three, I believed that by two thousand seven years, reality would be everywhere. And venture capitalists believe that as well in the early nineties, and it was a really half topic and then around nineteen ninety seven, it just fell off the edge of the world, and you couldn't even mention the word virtual reality to venture capitalists. And people often ask what happened and why did that happen? What happened was the Internet happened, which is an important critical technology for for virtual worlds, but the dot com boom happened where every ounce of excitement every dollar of venture capital went into just building basic flat businesses.

And and reality fell out of favor for over a decade, probably about fifteen years.

Speaker 1: This was gonna be my question to you was just sitting in there in twenty twelve. And you're hearing now about a Vr is gonna be the next biggest thing, where you sit in there thinking, Oh, no, not this again, or where you said Thinking yeah now is the time

Speaker 0: in twenty twelve and when it started to come back, and it was really around twenty fourteen that it was... That really... You started to see the same kinda of hype that we saw in may nineteen ninety five. At that time, twenty fourteen, I was working as a professor at California State University, and I teaching courses and entrepreneurship, and I was actually advising a variety of companies and I ended up advising some some student startups in the world z. I...

You know, distinctly remember saying the one thing that I learned in this space is that it things take longer than you expect to me the hype around in the early twenty tens felt okay. We're getting closer. It's probably a little overly optimistic. And and my advice to start at that time was to prepare to be an... To stain in it for the long haul because you're not gonna have a business plan that that realizes itself in three years.

So you should again, be on, a seven year plan. And my personal use at this time keeps real. This time, It... The industry is really coalesce around the concept, not just startups, not just venture capitalists, but major corporations are investing in the meta in a way where it really will happen at that level that that realizes all the excitement that people had, you know, thirty years ago. Over the last twelve to eighteen months, the really largest companies the world have...

Have realized that this is important for their consumer business. This is important for mainstream computing. They are planning their future with the meta as a significant part of it. I see there being a a virtual meta and an augmented matter. Where a virtual meta is these We fully simulated worlds, people are avatars and the augmented universe being a virtual layer over the real world And the reason I split it up in in my mind is that it's really two different industries that evolve in parallel, and they're coming from They're evolving out of existing industries.

I see the virtual meta evolving out of The gaming industry and social media industry, whereas it's... The virtual meta fully virtual worlds will evolve, really focused on socializing entertainment, shopping, gaming, in fully simulated worlds, whereas the augmented meta versus really evolving out of the mobile phone industry, evolving where the handheld phone will turn into augmented reality, eyewear wear, and and it's really about mobile media. And and it's different players, different focus, different interactions. I see both of those happening in in parallel. I in my personal view is it's actually easier to predict the augmented matter as looking at the time frame of how things evolve.

It's easier to predict A very rapid adoption of the augmented meta, whereas the fully virtual meta is a little bit harder to predict. Because it really depends on people wanting to spend significant amounts of time in fully simulated worlds

Speaker 2: This is interesting because a lot of people think that the is only virtual worlds, obviously the most first interesting aspect of the matter versus is being able to bring digital content into the real world so creating this kind of a connection between what is digital and what is real. Probably one of the most fascinating aspects this is that if you think about it right now and you're talking about the augmented matters will be the evolution of the mobile market. You think about the situation right now is that our life, without a mobile phone is way less meaningful than where we are mobile phone because we're more connected. We can do more things. We can work.

Or we can connect with our friends, so we can check the news. We have data information coming towards that. In the future, this is gonna be probably important of vital because it's gonna be also connected directly to the meaning of reality itself.

Speaker 0: Really the meta this transition from, information being stuck on this little flat window in your hand to information being placed into the world in a natural intuitive locations at the location that you want it. And so I I really do see, The augmented meta is being a human agonizing technology that will put information into the form that our per perception system was designed to perceive it. As spatial content all around this. The content should just be there. And the potential of augmented augmented reality, the augmented is is so extreme to make your world more natural, and it doesn't have the downsides of cutting you off from the real world.

In a way I like to think of the adoption path is this thing Okay. If you go back to, I think two thousand seven, everybody was using flip phones, and nobody thought they needed a smartphone and nobody thought they would ever spend a thousand dollars for a phone, and then Apple launches the iphone. Within five, six years, smartphones went from zero to completely replacing the flip phone market despite the fact that it was significantly more expensive when major major corporations launch augmented reality ai where, you could see the same exact kind of transition happening, which is first it'll be supported by by developers creating interesting content when Apple launches augmented reality the eyewear and there's interesting creative content, it will very quickly get to the point where people who don't have that eyewear will feel like they're missing out on content. And actually, I feel it'll actually feel it even more intensely than the difference p smartphone and a flip phone. Because they literally will be things in their world they can't even see.

By the early twenty thirties, we could really see an una augmented meta that is really changing society, changing how people

Speaker 2: You have been one of the pioneers years in the field of virtual reality. You started the foundation for what we now call augmented reality. And now you are operating the field of artificial intelligence. Can you tell us a little bit more about your first steps and why you got into Ai?

Speaker 0: Yep. My my Phd and my background and my interest is really in technologies that can be used to to amplify human abilities. So, my interest is really in this interface between between humans and computers and and so my interest initially in in virtual reality and augmented reality was to use this technology to allow people to to perform tasks better And for a long time, I was really focused on how to use technology to make to enhance a single individual's performance. The virtual fixtures platform that had built at the Air force was about, can I allow people to, like, to perform manual tasks with augmented reality and they could perform that task faster and better? About ten years ago, I started really thinking about not just individuals but groups of people.

And and can can we use technology to to enable groups of people to perform better? And and that's when I started look looking at artificial intelligence thing, can we use Ai to connect groups of people together better so that we can... Groups can make better decisions and better predictions and better forecasts. And that's really led me down this path. Of using Ai really in a unique way, which is to connect groups of people together and make them collectively smarter.

We we developed a technology that we call swarm ai. And we called it Because one of the things that I did ten years ago, was really thinking about. How can you make groups more intelligent. And like, many, you know, types of of technology. It's always useful to go back and look at nature?

And how does nature do it. And it turns out that nature has spent hundreds and planes a years evolving methods where large groups can actually optimize their combined intelligence. And biologists call it swarm intelligence and swarm intelligence is the reason why birds flock and fish school and b swarm. They are significantly smarter together than alone. They make much better decisions.

And so it's if... So in terms of swarm intelligence, you can think of a school of fit. A school of fish, they could be thousands of individuals. They each have a slightly different view of their world. They each have slightly different historical memories of their experiences.

They have slightly different personalities, no one's in charge. There's no fish that's in charge and yet, the school of fish can navigate the ocean and make good decisions and and be a successful species for hundreds of millions of years by working together as a system. They don't take a vote. They don't take a poll. There's...

They don't take a survey. There's... They work as a real time system pushing and pulling on each other by with little signals that allow the group to make to make really good decisions. And biologists would call them a super organism. And so when I founded Unanimous say, hi, seven years ago, And so if birds and bees and fish can get smarter in these systems, can we use Ai to allow groups of people to come together in these systems?

And we built this system called swarm. We see that groups of people making forecasts or making decisions can get thirty, forty percent more accurate when they're working together as a swarm. As this interactive system, with Ai watching their behaviors, then if they just took a vote or a poll or a survey. And an example, we did a a study with with Mit where we looked at groups of traders, financial traders, and we had them predict the price of gold, the price of oil, the S and P five hundred. And and they would do it alone or they would do it just by taking a group vote, would they would do it as a swarm.

And as a swarm as a constraint, they have to all be connected at the same time. It's a real time system, but they would log in. It would question would come up that's the price of oil in the next seven days, and then we had these groups do this every week for twenty consecutive weeks. And the groups that use that work together as a swarm were, I think, thirty percent more accurate in forecasting oil and gold in the S and P than the traditional methods.

Speaker 2: And I have a question about it immediately, which is... Does the system become more accurate with more people added to the system.

Speaker 0: So we had the exact same question first, which was how many people do you need, and I originally assumed that you would need at least fifty people, you may be a hundred people, when we looked at swarms of bees, swarms of b's. It's interesting because this a b colony has about ten thousand members. And they make these remarkable decisions. They will decide on new homes to move into and things as a swarm, but they only use about three hundred members at out of the ten thousand. So it made us think like, is probably you don't have to...

You don't have to keep adding members, at least nature suggest that. And what we found was It depends on the type of question and the type of population, but usually between thirty and sixty people is really good to get a very accurate forecast from members of the general public, we've done every year we get asked by journalists to predict the Oscars. Just using reg members of the general public as an example, we'll take in fifty movie fans and we'll predict the Oscars. And every year we'll outperform the movie critics at the New York Times and the La post and the at and variety and vanity fair because people are smart and you combine their insights they get smarter. The thing that surprised me the most Was that it...

When you have real experts, the people who are not just members of the public, trained professionals, you can get down to pretty small groups we did study with Stanford Medical school that was funded by Nsf, where we brought in groups of doctors, and we had them diagnose chest x rays as a swarm. And and so the... These doctors would either just work on their own and make a diagnosis or they would take a vote by a survey or they would log in together and as a swarm converge on a diagnosis. And so an x actually would pop up on their screen and then they would swarm and converge. And the study that we published with Stanford in the journal nature, digital medicine showed that when working together as a swarm, the doctors could reduce their diagnostic errors by over thirty percent.

And it was just four or five doctors. It wasn't thirty He wasn't fifty. He had these experts was just four or five people working together as a system. Could make significant improvement.

Speaker 1: Given your background, obviously, we're immersive technology data with virtual augmented individuality and obviously, we're discussions brave new world the meta. How do you potentially foresee the technology and convergence of artificial intelligence like the one that you're creating or work with and this world of the mess us.

Speaker 0: Artificial intelligence will be one of the most significant technologies in the meta for good and, bad, and Technologies that that I focus on are really about connecting groups of people in real time, the one constraint when you get a group of people as a swarm as they have to all be connected together at once, which immersive worlds are great for. Immersive worlds are really about real time interactions. The meta is a world where we will be have the ability to collect massive amounts of information about people, and we can talk about that in more detail, but artificial intelligence is very often used to to characterize people and profile people and it's being used in traditional Web two world to crunch lots of data and then understand things about people. I think Ai will be able to understand things about people even form more in the meta because it will we will have a world where people are are being tracked in lots of different ways. And so I think that's interesting.

I think I think we will learn about people. I also think it gets dangerous because we could start to profile people at levels that become maybe predatory. And so that's one area. The other area that Ai becomes really significant is there will be Ai controlled avatars in the med. There will be Ai controlled agents, avatars, they will be conversational and and they will be very good at what they do, with especially with the very recent surge of progress in large language models, the prospect that you could interact with a a virtual Ai controlled spokesperson and not even realize that person's not real.

Is is definitely within our reach, especially in a virtual world where everybody looks like an avatar if you were approached by an avatar looks just as real as everybody else, and it's it's powered by a large language model, it will be able to interact with you in ways that make you think it's real. And that's really interesting At the same time, it's also dangerous it's dangerous because the most likely usage of that type of Ai powered avatar is for promotional purposes. As Ai powered spokes people that are gonna engage you in promotional conversation with the goal of persuading you to buy a product or service or even worse persuading you to believe an idea that that some third party has paid to to influence you. And just like advertising in today's world in flat media, this type of advertising, the med will be targeted. And so you will be approached by an Ai powered avatar that will be custom designed to be most persuasive to you, the way it looks.

Its voice, its manner its clothing will be all be chosen based on your profile. And and it will gauge you in a conversation about a product or service or political propaganda, and it will be very persuasive. And that use of Ai, I think is very dangerous, especially because in the meta, that Ai will also have access to your facial features, your vocal inflection, maybe even some of your vital signs, blood pressure heart rate. And so we could find ourselves in a virtual future, where we're engaged by virtual spokes that are driven by Ai that have access to our personal history that knows our likes, or tendencies. It knows how we're most likely to be persuaded.

It's reading our facial expressions, maybe even our heart rate, blood pressure, the whole point of virtual reality and augmented reality is to blur the boundaries between what's authentic and what's not.

Speaker 1: I guess, feel sense of responsibility for for that area of of the growth matters given the fact that you're largely responsible for a lot of the early pioneering and early growth when these concerns probably weren't, major thing.

Speaker 0: People have been promoting the technology for a long time, have a responsibility to say, hey, this has the potential to to make this magical world, but there needs to be some guard rails in place because utopian vision could get distorted. I think for a lot of people, you can look at what happened with social media and say, hey, things don't always turn out the way you expect. Social media, It's a great concept had Utopian vision, a lot of really Utopian benefits bringing world together gave a voice to the billions of people. It had the potential to democrat society, but At the same time, there were no guard rails in place on social media, and so it is created these created Inadvertently, a system that also polarized the society and spreads misinformation and disinformation. And I think we can learn from that and say, hey, Let's think about both the good and the bad so that we don't have another Utopian technology that

Speaker 1: I was gonna say because, like, you you Robert famously, you have people like, I guess, Bill gates and, like, Mark Cuban who in the past have, like, but vocal limited, I guess, like screen time for their children to use just like mobile phones, I think in be okay couldn't let his children have a phone until they were over the age of fourteen, which, I in twenty two thousand seven So I guess that's a that's the sign of the age there. But would you let I guess, your children use virtual reality. Would you let them enter them matter us? What's your opinion on that?

Speaker 0: Two for today. One is, I think children or young people are going to use technology where other young people are, and if you restrict them, you're actually creating social problems for them. And so they don't necessarily have a choice. In some they're they're the head of the of the curve. And because right now, the people who are in the med right now, The most are pretty young people in minecraft and roadblocks, like, those are real med worlds and There's a whole generation growing up in minecraft and roadblocks.

And at the other side of it, ultimately, whether you could steer people away from using the med right now while it's in this transition, it will get to a point where people will not have a choice. People do not have a choice right now really to use a smartphone. They don't have a choice, but to use the Internet, you will be at a disadvantage. If you don't have augmented reality. You'll be a disadvantage if you can't do shopping in reality.

Speaker 2: I have a question about this. What is from your point of view? Like the top three or top five things that should happen in order to protect the consumers and the meta users in the future. And also, How do you see this implemented? Do you see this implemented on a platform level?

Do you see this implemented on country governance level? Or do city implemented, like a sort of our United nation, the you digital human rights kind of declaration.

Speaker 0: I think the way it's implemented could be or all of the above it could be platform it could be government, It could be a digital human rights. Do you think that the concerns that I have are in terms of where regulation would happen is really about putting guard rails on what on the platforms themselves.

Speaker 2: And when they're on the character rails, Do you have, like, top tree or top five being... Yeah To protect

Speaker 0: So one broad category is tracking. Right? So again, fights very nature, the meta has to know where you are. Right? Has to know where you are, your orientation, it could be tracking your gate, your posture, that has to know that stuff to in order to simulate the world around you.

It doesn't have to store that information. And limitations on... And by storage, I mean, it doesn't to store that information over time. It needs that information in order to simulate an experience in real time. As I think limitations on tracking really go to storing information over time and giving the ability to profile people.

Because again, and this is where Ai comes in If you have the ability to track these motions throughout their day after day, you could then use Ai to then predict their behaviors. You could use Ai on that motion data or to prop to actually predict health problems, putting limits on making a clear distinction between the data that's needed for real time providing a real time simulated immersive experience that is magical and educational and informative. I think that's fully possible. I think we don't have to store that information over time. So that's the input side.

The output side, Meta platforms will have the ability to take whatever information they have about you, profiles about you, and then target you with content with advertising just like in social media, But think that's really different about targeted content in the meta versus targeted content and social media is that in today's world when an advertisement pops up, It's very clear it's in advertisement. It's a it's a pop up ad. It's a video in the meta advertising will become immersive. It will go from flat content to immersive experiences. And so when advertisements in promotion and propaganda to become experiences, it could become indistinguishable from real from other real events real activities in that world.

An example that I could give of I, what I would call it, a promotional altered experience. Imagine you're walking down the street in in a virtual world, or maybe in the augmented world, and and you see a parked car you've never seen before and you you notice it and then two people are standing outside the car, having a conversation about it, and their talk the driver's telling their friend, how amazing that that this new car is and and you just... You walked past, and you might just think that was an authentic experience, and it will could subconsciously influence you and say, oh, like, people who live around here really think that this this car has these great features. And you might not realize. No.

That was injected into a world as a targeted advertisement Only you saw that experience, and they chose the color of the car, and they chose the virtual spokes people, their gender and her clothing baked all to maximize persuasion on you, and you might have no idea that. So this idea of these promotional altered experiences will happen in the meta of hers and they could be indistinguishable from authentic experiences, and that's really dangerous because it changes your view of reality. If something is a targeted promotional experience, it should look different. It should look different. Should sound different, I, the consumer, I, the user should be able to see when I see that virtual car and people talking.

That's fine. But if it looks different. Yeah. If it looks different if it just It stan looks different, and I, oh, that's promotional, I can then put it in the proper context and use my natural skepticism to say, yeah, that was placed there.

Speaker 2: I think that we could go on four hours on this topic.

Speaker 1: Said this is fascinating and I like, I'm just taking in know... Second northern knowledge.

Speaker 2: I just wanted to... Add something on top of this that's you're talking a lot about automated profiling system that can potentially, you know, be to purchase products and persuade people in on the to invest money on products. But my take on this is not just that this can happen only with automate system this could potentially happen also with actors that are real people that are going in the matter knowing something about you and doing this in real life. So it's not just a matter of fact of what is gonna be automated in the matter that needs to appear as paid for advertising. But also, there there's a...

There are some regulation that need to happen also in the terms of behaviors of real people that should be tracked, and someone should put some measures and some chaperone in place in order to protect their inhabitants from this kind of behaviors.

Speaker 0: There's really important reasons to have strict controls around identity. All that said that I do wanna point out that even though you could do this with human actors, Ai controlled avatars will ultimately be far more powerful and also cheaper to implement, and I say that because

Speaker 2: at scale.

Speaker 0: At scale, but even even just on one on one, it's powerful. Meta just announced that they're putting facial record facial tracking, expression tracking in their New. Headset. And there's a really good reason for doing that if you put facial tracking on a headset now your avatar could express human emotions. It's a human icing thing it's positive.

On the other hand, if they can use emotional analysis in real time advertising, now this Ai controlled avatar that's engaging you emotional conversation will adjust its tactics in real time based on the emotions you're expressing, and it turns out that Ai is actually better at detecting emotions potentially than humans because an Ai can actually detect what are called micro expressions that happen so quickly or so subtly that a human salesperson wouldn't recognize it, but the Ai can. I think that consumers would would appreciate if there were guard rails in place that said, hey, he can't use a motion detection in real time to to adapt advertisements. And I think the platforms would benefit because if consumers lose trust, then it hurts it hurts the whole industry, And if you put guard rails in place and people feel safe in the meta, that's good for the whole industry.

Speaker 1: Sal this we're we've just about hit our time now, and I was gonna say to Nick this Han a part to... You could have a whole conversation about this just final topic care. This has been absolutely fascinating to me, and I'm sure to our listeners and viewers the source has been very interested as well. Thank you very much for your time.

Speaker 0: Yeah. No. Thanks for having me. Was it was great. Did you know, you can catch this full episode of field of you and more by subscribing on Youtube.

Spotify, Apple Music or wherever you get your podcast to not miss another immersive technology moment. You subscribe today.