
Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta. But there's also lots of substance, development and exciting On this podcast series into the meta brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest developments and bring on the interesting mines who are building, investing in and experiencing the med. By Matthew Can, a senior equity research channel was with Bloomberg audience.

Speaker 1: And I'm Jan and Ras Friedman, you can call beyond, I'm the founder Ceo of Super social, we're a company ventured back that are building gains and experiences for the med. Starting with roblox. We're excited to service your host and guide for this journey into the universe. There's incredible content that are gonna bring to life amazing guests that are really going into unpack all the opportunities and excitement about the for businesses, developers, creators, marketers brands, than and many work.

Speaker 0: And so, Jan, the first question that I wanna ask, and I and I think I wanna ask it to every guest that we eventually bring on, but I think it's extremely important to set the stage and help define exactly what the meta is to you, to your team to your company, what is the meta? You know, what what is the meta to to super social to Jan? And and what are the key characteristics that shape the meta in your view? And, I guess, also importantly in that vein, what isn't the meta?

Speaker 1: Well, maybe I'll start with the elimination process. Right? What isn't? The universe. And and I think what the universe isn't is it's isn't a game.

It's not a website, and it's also not a place to me, the better is more of an approach or or or an experience to our life over the internet in its next evolution. And so when you... When we think about the universe is really the evolution of what the Internet can be should be in the future, large scale, virtual environments, virtual world, virtual spaces where people humans all over the world can do so much more than what we've done, over the Internet over web one wave two o. And all these experiences are going to be ever more persistent meaning it's always on. It's never stops.

It's also shared and it's open. It's of a large scale and so the dream of the is, of course, that not couple hundred people can experience a concert on robots or on Fortnite. Actually, it's millions of people who con communicating in one placing, one single point time to experience something together. And so it's going to be something that is ever more immersive, ever more social ever more expensive than anything we've known until today with regards to virtual words. And I think, you know, if you think about it like that, it not only provides opportunities to completely reimagine what virtual experiences is or human experiences online could look like it also means that there's gonna be a whole new world of possibilities of what creators can make.

And that could be individual creators, really a a fifty year old in a bedroom that can build a new type of experience or an application letter on on top of platforms. And it can be an an a multi billion dollar operation like Facebook, that decides to build, you know, its next layer of application could see application. Form, you know, med experiences. And then I think the the the other two key components and that we're excited about. Number one is obviously, meta experiences are going to be accessible through any device.

And so the the the question of what platform people are going to consume information or experiences on, is going to transform from, like, mobile console Pc to... It doesn't really matter because we're gonna be able to access. Those experiences in any device. And so I think about the basically device agnostic. And then the second piece, which is potentially, the most transforming and there's so much to one back on that point is we're going to manifest ourselves into the universe as humans and living in the universe as an avatar.

And that avatar doesn't even have to be one avatar. It could be many, many, many avatars. And you and I'm mad who can find yourself expressing yourself as individual in as individuals through the wide area of avatars that maybe fit to different type of experiences, Maybe when we wanna experience music in the developers, we're gonna use, you know, Avatar wide. And what we wanna be more of a sports bank or play sports the endeavors, we're gonna be out of our text. And so I think all these opportunities to create multiple identities entities by what single human expressing yourself in the metaphor.

This is probably one of the most transformative human behavior shares that I think we're seeing since the invention of the Internet itself.

Speaker 0: I think that's a really great point about expressing oneself digitally with with virtual accessories, virtual cosmetics. You know, that's something that's been done in gaming for a while, but it tends to be unique to a single game. But the ability to create different avatars create different outfits effectively have a closet in your virtual world for your virtual self and be able to bring that from experience to experience, that that... That's a huge opportunity, both from a from a an engagement perspective, from a revenue perspective from a branding perspective, there's so many business opportunities that tie into that that angle.

Speaker 1: And and one more one more super important point in in in my mind back to is as we kind of, you know, the open the world of the universe to to, you know, our audience and and bringing so many important and interesting speakers is that the manifest is not about gaming. It might start with gaming and gaming has popularized a lot of different concept when it come to the virtual world and gaming will continue to be an important, kind of facet of of what the is and potentially, it's key use case. Over the first several years, but ultimately, I envision us just like over the Internet. People will do commerce in new ways. They will consume entertainment new ways.

They would play games in way. They would likely learn. They're gonna be educational activities and experiences. And, of course, there's gonna be opportunities of how do we work in better. Right?

And I think one of the things that super social that we're already exploring, building over roblox is, how do we actually build the virtual words inside the platform like where we can congregate as a team. And so I think workforce and workplace the med is is another kind of transformative potential trend that we can unpack. But We're gonna dig in on all of that, and and, you know, there's so many exciting ports to tackle. But, Matthew, you you've you you've also done you know, some work on on the subject of of the and the business of the. And so, you know, for for the listeners who are joining our our, who might be newer to the of what it actually means, especially those from the financial markets or or investors, what what is really the universe from a market perspective, how big is that market?

And and what's at stake when when people need to think about the with that regard?

Speaker 0: Yeah. It's that's in a really important thing to tackle, and it's it's something that on on Bloomberg Intelligence for Bloomberg professional subscribers. That's Bi go on your that we've... That we've been writing a lot about. The way we look at the meta is we actually look at it mostly from the client platforms.

And so there's others out there like matt ball who's written a lot about the meta that include other things like networking and infrastructure. But from the client platform perspective, you know, we're looking at a market that represents almost eight hundred billion dollars by twenty twenty four. That's basically doubling versus twenty twenty. You know, that... So that includes things like the, like I mentioned, the client platforms, advertising opportunities, entertainment content, which includes games that doesn't have to only be games It includes things like live events, concerts, films.

So all of that adds up to about eight hundred billion dollars by twenty twenty four, we estimate. You know, the reason we focus on on these kind of client platforms and and and entertainment opportunities is because we think these are the likely near term opportunities for Meta platform. Forms. You started talking about enterprise, education is something that both roadblocks and many others have talked about as opportunities, but those seem kind of a bit longer term to play out. So folk...

You know, we focused on kind the near term points. And, you know, obviously, that's a huge market already. Everyone loves to talk about Pam total addressable market, having eight hundred billion dollars in front of you is already huge. And then being able to layer in enterprise communications and and and and unified communications like Zoom, you know, bringing that into a meta for the enterprise, you know, education. If you just think about Roadblocks has talk so much about education, which makes so much sense because their core user base is kids in school.

Right? So it makes total sense to try to bring education into a virtual realm, you know, education really hasn't changed and how many hundreds of years. So, you know, the those are the key opportunities that we've outlined. And again, that reports available for all Bloomberg professional subscribers on Bi go.

Speaker 1: That's awesome. And so I just feel like it's so important that as the grows as, you know, at the moment quite a a trend or or maybe a phenomenon to something that is so much bigger than that and that people can really unpack and understand the market the different categories Obviously, things also kinda of connect together anywhere from gaming to social experiences to human experiences, to commerce to games to music. There's so many categories and content verticals and now, you know, blockchain comes in, and with all these entities, which I'm sure we're gonna touch upon. One of the... One of the thing that I wanted to to dig into is kind of getting into some of the good stuff and what companies and platforms who are really leading this stand on on the members, which one are positioned and best capitalized to really build phenomenal experiences, reimagine what life into would interactive experiences and meta could look like.

And if you if we think about the as this massive you know, tsunami this huge huge wave that is coming through the shores of the entire global population. You know, some of the surfers are gonna be small. Some of the surfers are gonna be big. What's clear is that the wave is there, everyone can now see the wave. It's not a secret.

The genie is out of the bottom. Maybe And so I think the question is really, what do we what do we think about is the contenders for leaving the charge to the universe. You know, I have a... A lot of opinions about that, but I'd love to, you know, let you match kind of, you know, chime it first.

Speaker 0: Well, let's let's start with everyone's favorite, including yours because your company working on it. Directly. We can start with roadblocks. You know, I think roblox roadblocks is by far in a away. The leader at the moment and the meta.

They've been, you know, everyone thinks there's a lot of hype in this market in this industry. Roadblocks just Ipo and the meta was everywhere in their filings, and that's all they talk about, but there's You know, if you've been following roadblocks for a while, like many of us have, including you, you know that the meta isn't just hype to them. It's something that they've been building for over a decade. And they continue to invest and continue to build it day in and day out. You know, their platform is ubiquitous.

It's across devices. As you mentioned, Pc console mobile. I think it includes Vr now too, you know, it it it's across age groups just across geographies. It it's it's the textbook meta. As as as as exists today in terms of having multiple different types of experiences, the ability to express yourself, both you know, with with with your Avatar as well as developing content?

Should you go choose to go down that route? You know, it it is just the this the the pro meta out there today.

Speaker 1: Yeah. And I wanna double down on that. Right? I think you're, you're you know, you're talking about a platform. I remember when we were raising capital for super social and kind of building that narrative of of of rob roblox.

You know, I had to create sort of a story an narrative of what is rewards why robots is you need. And how do you... How do we make sure that people don't think about roblox as an app for kids and it's quite astonishing that pre aesthetics it's trading today at roughly, you know, fifty plus billion dollar market cap. It's quite astonishing that only a year a year and a half ago, majority of people in the know still refer to roblox as an app for kids, even some of the biggest media outlets. And and so I think we came such a long way in only a year to really understand that rob roblox in in in in our opinion is is really an era defining platform because it sits at a intersection of four multi billion dollar verticals.

Right? Dropbox roblox is a game engine. Meaning it can allow you to build three d game worlds that are multi multiplayer environments. Now number two, it's a publishing and distribution platform for content. Just like the Ox just like Youtube, and then it's also a social network.

More messages are sent daily by daily active users on quickbooks looks dead whatsapp. More than sixty building messages. While on after rates it's fifty building. So Rom is this massive messaging platform with a social network element. And then the fourth, it's a cloud service provider.

They have their own data centers. Right? All of these really allows developers to build experiences at a fraction of the time and the cost, also getting access to, you know, some of the most engaged audience ever in in any media outlet, with an average daily active user grow spending two and a half hours on the plaza in the day, which is quite quite quite staggering data point. And so, you know, I think pro is is definitely a contender and a key driver of what the universe already is today. But, of course, there's is other...

There other companies anywhere from. You know, the Facebook of the world revolves or my Mark Zuckerberg. You know, he's approached to Facebook essentially. He's moving from a socially media to to a member's company, and and most likely other social media, genre announced like snapchat, All of them will most likely already thinking about how do they build themselves as part of the narrative of the universe. And then, of course, there is the technology providers companies like Nav that are playing a massive role in in the med.

We'd, you know, they're gpus used they're only versed that they're created kind of as as Jensen, the ceo of of Nav nvidia, calling it kind of the med for engineers. And so it's it's it's just really exciting to see so many different companies. But I would... I'm gonna Gonna make quite a statement here, matthew. I'm sure you're gonna You guys challenge me on that, but but you know, I think that's part of their amazing these course we're gonna have in these forecast, which is I believe that the biggest success stories in the era of the universe, Many of the biggest success stories are going to be companies that either have been born now or about to be born.

Over the next couple of years. And I think that's kind of also learning from history of how the first wave of the played out. The second wave of the internet played out you know, we we all know where Aol ended up, and and and and therefore, I wouldn't be so optimistic in assuming that it's very natural that the biggest company the med gonna be Facebook. I actually back today, sir.

Speaker 0: I like to think of, in my mind, the meta is almost like a virtual shopping mall. Every store is a different companies own individual meta. There will be a Facebook meta. There will be a roadblocks meta. There will be an epic meta.

There will be all these different meta if people are building these closed platforms, and those will intersect with public platforms or decentralized private platforms. And and the the the bill... The ones that'll succeed are the ones that can build those bridges between and not just be completely closed off, but also have the connectivity to reach out. I think those are the ones are gonna be most successful. So, you know, I think that all of the big companies that are pushing into the meta today.

Roblox, you know, they have a great core audience, especially with younger younger users. You know, I think they're gonna have the hook there. I think Epic Games is a bit older in terms of their audience, and they have a really close tie to those types of players and users. I think Facebook is gonna succeed extremely well with older users, and and that's that's really the bread and butter of the core Facebook platform and You know, So I I think as you kinda look across the landscape, there's gonna be all these different kinds of meta that appeal to different people and that's kinda why I use the shopping mall because you know, maybe one store goes out of business but gets replaced by something else that starts up. You know, so that...

That's just kinda how I think about this is gonna play out and And so, yeah, I totally agree. I think that some of the most successful companies are gonna be meta native. You know, they're gonna be web three and in many cases decentralized and you know, we'll talk about the centralized platforms in a bit, But, you know, I I I think that's gonna be a big part of of the of the future. You know, I think the one the one company that I also wanna call out that I think is a is a dark horse to to really make a challenge in in what I'm calling the China verse, which is will be gonna be China's version of the med. So quick anecdote, you know, most people that, you know, if if you're new to tack if you're new to this, you may not know that China has a basically a separate internet, you know, content there is extremely restricted.

And, basically, there's two Internet in the world. This is experience in the gaming industry, you know, the gaming market in China is effectively walled off from the rest of the world. The meta will evolve probably the same way in China, the local platforms will be probably separate from the global platforms. But in China, and possibly globally with their global platform as well. I think Byte chance is gonna be a real dark course as the meta evolves you know, people may not know that Byte dance is the owner of Tiktok and they have the domestic app, which is called Doo.

They they own the short video space. They're the dominant player there. I think they have over five hundred million monthly active users now on on Du, and it doesn't even count Tiktok outside of China. So You know, they've got a massive user base. They're investing in gaming to have the content to support their meta efforts for the gaming type content.

You know, that's one that we think will be a dark horse. You know, my original dark chorus call was Facebook and then two months later, Mark Zuckerberg comes out and says the word meta fifty times in an earnings call. So that's no longer a dark chorus call, but know, so I think Byte dance has one to watch as well. And then, you know, I think one other thing that we need to talk about as well is the, you know, you mentioned that Roblox is is an engine is a is a is a is a backend end systems technology provider. You know, Epic games is a large meta company they're there as well.

But really the only neutral Switzerland if you're looking for an engine if you're looking for three d software is unity, and I think the Unity is well positioned to you know, see incremental demand outside of gaming customers as the meta really unfolds as as media companies and others look to build out their own experiences, as sports teams do it at, you know, Unity hired Peter Moore, who is formerly the Ceo of Liverpool, Fc, I'm a big liverpool fan myself. But he also used to run the competitive gaming business of electronic arts, and he was a a gaming industry executive other firms before that. He's coming in to help them build out a virtual sports business. And so you know, I think that sports is a huge opportunity. So being able to basically build a a l platform for brands, like sports teams, like, like music artists and be able to create their own, their own meta, leveraging a unity, you know, basically white label product.

That's a huge opportunity for Unity. And then, obviously, you also have, like, the other backend end systems you have cloud infrastructure. You have networking, you have telecom providers that will all benefit to some degree from the growth of the med, but you know, if we look at, I mentioned Matt Ball in the beginning. You know, he's he's been a thought leader on the med and he... He's worked with you know, my buddies at Round hill investment to launch a very successful Etf, the Meta Etf, which I just checked today just crossed a hundred million dollars of assets under management, which is very successful for them automatic Etf in in, like, basically less than two months.

So, you know, congrats to to will, Tim, Mario and and Matt and the rest of everyone involved. But, you know, in in terms of how he breaks it down, you know, he includes those other areas in their Etf in in his portfolio and, you know, and how he thinks about the meta. You know, I don't think there's a writer or, wrong answer. I think all of these companies are extremely important to the development of the meta. You know, the big question that if you're an investor looking at private companies if you're investor looking at public companies if you're just interested in the meta overall, know, if you're thinking about what companies are gonna drive the development of the med.

You know, I don't I don't think like a telecom carrier is gonna be driving the development of the med, but they're extremely important to the development of the meta

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. I definitely subscribe to that. And I think there's gonna be enabler for the universe, the technology layer anywhere from. The Internet is going to have to be faster than ever before Internet connections, Internet availability, Internet accessibility. There's still millions of millions of people.

You know, I I I think Internet is in and of itself, Internet connectivity and that's access to the Internet should almost be a human right before talking about a world where people are going to congregate in in large scale virtual environments. We're gonna need five g, six g ten. We're gonna need super fast Internet. To accommodate these millions of millions of people have coming together. And so I think everyone should have access today the Internet, and we know that that's not the case.

So and so definitely tel companies are playing a role also other being technology companies that need to make the Internet accessible and more affordable in order to, you know, really make these next generation experiences, environments, world accessible to everyone. You can't truly get much of the world to be part of the universe. If they can't access basic Internet. And and we know for sure that that's not something that is still available, although we have made incredible progress over the past twenty years, we I think not more than fifty percent of the world population can access the Internet in these in in one shape form. But ultimately, you know, if the matter is going to become the evolution of the Internet, it needs to be accessible to everyone.

And so... And when that happens, when you have, you know, almost eight billion people are able to access experiences across play, commerce, games, entertainment, education. We're really talking about a a a another human frontier for the future. And, you know, for for for us, for me, if a builder is an entrepreneur, this is really, really, really exciting. And it it really forces us to completely reimagine what are going to be key experiences that are going to delight and power expire.

You know, people young people, especially, who are reshaping the future. With what they do every day.

Speaker 0: That that's a great segue because I was about to ask for a company that's actually building experiences for the meta. These gonna be incredibly important, You know, because, you know, the same analogy is with network technologies with anything. You need the killer app to killer experience to catalyze mass adoption, you know, super social, you know, you know, I think a lot of people have interested to know exactly what Super social is doing and kinda how you're going about building experiences for the meta as well.

Speaker 1: So, you know, for us, the the... The sort of the first hypothesis was really that. On the back of of of the pandemic, you know, seeing two point five billion people who who are in school age, you know, out of school spending time at home. Being unable to go and socialize and interact with their friends, let alone study in a classroom. That kind of sort of was the first realization that Oh my god.

The world is about to change. Nothing will ever look the same again because I think what changed is human behavior. Overnight, we suddenly had to show get factor do a whole new generation that the way that they socialize. The way that they play the way that they interact big friends, the way that they learn, the way they're they're experiencing life is really in a virtual set. And I'm not saying that in real life is not going to continue to be a critical way we experience slack it is and probably even more important than before because of the pandemic.

So But I do believe that as we as Covid arrive, it kind of really accelerated to shift to virtual experiences virtual worlds across the board, And most importantly, again, those billions of young people who are basically and basically good learning for the past couple of years every day, but the way they're gonna play, the way they're gonna make friends. The way they're going to socialize is going to be primarily through virtual experiences. And I think, you know, that's kind of the biggest shift that I see in terms of where we're going over the next decade. Now as super social, what we got excited about is how do we leverage those incredible cutting edge technology and technical infrastructures, for example, roblox, but also other platforms like epic, like Unity, like, blockchain like, Microsoft, how do we take advantage of these incredible technologies and infrastructures that I've been being built over the past and fifteen years how do we take that and build a top of those platforms quite rapidly next generation, interactive experiences and virtual worlds that can inspire and empower? A whole new generation to socialize connect, play, learn and work in the universe, you know, in terms of in terms of the type of experience that we're already seeing that are exciting is, you know, collaborative games, social games, games that really empower people with ability and opportunities to creatively express themselves.

Worlds where people come together to do things together. One of the powerful things about the members is going to be the fact that you're building your relationships. And we're excited to create content and interactive experiences where people, young people, people of every age are excited to come together and play, come together and learn and cut together and and watch and watch and movie. All of those things and using our avatars as the manifestation of our personality and you know, this is kind of a a a talking point, I'm gonna reiterate it again and again that transition from the consumer of the internet to the Avatar of the universe I think that's a big shape that we're really excited about. And so we're not building any more experiences for consumers.

We're not gonna build experiences for matthew for Young. We're gonna build of experiences for lord genres, which is by Avatar in the in the Platform. And we're gonna build for the nasty Avatar And and I think building experiences for those Avatar that we don't even know who they are. We don't earn their name. We don't know their age.

We don't know where they're from. It's a whole new realm of possibilities, and it's kind of a paradigm and shift of moving from building a social application or a mobile phone. For, you know, someone that we really know who they are where they're from to building a whole new experience for an avatar that we don't know who that person is. But we know that there is a human behind it and they have motivation. They have desires they needs.

And so, you know, in summary, At super social, our ambition is to really build the most iconic experiences for the members or starting with roblox. And the type of impact we wanna make is building the next generation household brands and experiences that you know, mask people like you and me have experienced, you know, back in the day when nintendo on super mario and when Sega was supersonic. Those type of gains and experiences and brands that continued with us forever decent the additional super social to really bring those cutting edge and next generation experiences starting with the Robo roblox platform but going so much beyond that and bringing people together to connect socialize and and creating the members.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And and you talked about creating that pitch for investors, And I think that's a really strong pitch and, you know, just to to put of numbers around it to pulls some data from the Bloomberg terminal. I ran a screen earlier. It's a screen that I've run a lot lately because it's a quite a crazy tale, You know, if you look at gaming as a whole and a lot of this investment lately has been dedicated to Meta platforms. But if you look venture capital investment in in the gaming sector, we're sitting here September fourteenth.

So we're not even through the third quarter yet. We've already smashed through in, you know, the the the record ever venture capital raising year for games, which happened to be last year. Twenty twenty was an exceptional year. There was ninety eight deals done raising almost three billion dollars according to Bloomberg data, twenty twenty one has a eclipse that. We've already had a hundred and seventeen deals done so far in twenty twenty one as tracked by Bloomberg and almost four billion dollars has been raised.

So we've already raised almost a billion dollars more, and we're not even three quarters of the way through the year. Now granted twenty twenty one included huge fundraising raising rounds for epic games and in roblox privately before their Ipo, but still, you know, I I think it speaks volumes to the amount of capital that's flowing into this space. Especially going after, you know, the convergence of these of these mega themes, meta, decent, social. You know, it's no longer just who can make the next candy crush who can make the next match three game. I mean, those are great companies and they deserve investment, but investors are also looking ahead as to where, you know, social interaction and entertainment content is going and the meta, the convergence of all these trends with the meta is a is a place where a lot of that investment is is going now.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent, Matthew, I think it's a it's a great point did you know if five if I take a basketball analogy. Right? It's I think some investors, those trail leasing investors are are not looking at kind of where the the first bounce of the ball when when you should it. It's like we're... What's the what's the second balance of the ball.

And I think a lot of these investors that you're talking about it's still a small portion of the the the venture community. But But, you know, it's definitely on the rise, Those things are powerful full, meta decent, the next social, a lot of investors I've are talking about games as the next social networks. And some investors have even smaller portion are even talking now about not only the games becoming social networks by how we build social networks and actually turning them into economies, and we're gonna talk about that when we when we... When we address the blockchain element. And so, you know, as super social, again, definitely good we have been...

We have been fortunate to have a group of investors that that really believed in in the iconic could really see where where we're where we're heading with regards to meet interactive experiences and to your point just echoing what you said. Absolutely is always gonna be just like when mobile arrived and people thought the console games are gonna die, just like with mobile and console, and it's going to be the same with mobile games and the and meta experiences. They're always going to be great new mobile game companies building mastery regain for, you know, mobile phone that's not gonna disappear. Obviously, it's gonna be harder to do because there's already big contenders that are dominating the market. Obviously, there's gonna be potentially less capital allocated obligated to do expand ventures.

But those ventures will continue to come up, and that's great. The ecosystem. The total of addressable market is going to you know, continuously grow. And, you know, you've already said the Blue number which is eight hundred billion. It probably wouldn't be that crazy to assume it can even a clicks one trillion in total market, opportunity for anyone that deals on the members, And and and I think, you know, if if I was an investor today, venture investor, it's it's really the time to take that stand and really believe in this new world that we're building, either if it's they're decentralized or not, that's a separate question, but it's pretty abundantly clear that the next wave of the Internet is going to be more immersive, more social and more expensive than than ever before because of what the is going to enable us to create for, you know, for humans around the world.

Speaker 0: And the last set of companies I just wanted to mention that are exposed to the med really positively is gonna be Ip owners, you know, whether that's entertainment brands like Disney, or Fox or Comcast or it's music labels. I think one of the biggest opportunities and we've already seen it start to take off is is concerts. Unless you're like Taylor Swift or that ill of a music artist, you only make money by touring. You know, these artists will go on tour for three months They won't see their family. They'll live in a bus.

They'll play a show every other day, kills their health. You know, it kills their family, and they don't see their kids and everything. Well, you mentioned it early on, you know, when these experiences can support millions of people simultaneously, there's no reason that you can't do a virtual concert for ten million people, and Epic has had ten million people watch these virtual concerts and smaller doses. But, you know, there's no reason that a millions of people can simultaneously watch a concert and pay five dollars or whatever for it, you know, pay it... Make that a ticket gated event And all of a sudden, you're making more money than you did on an entire, you know, national tour in the United States or or continental tour in Europe.

You know? So the economics for for from music artists are just skewed so much to touring now. That's why Live Nation has been so successful even coming out of the pandemic and you know, looking at brands like U g, w g, you know, the big labels, but also live nation, you know, they're still the best at concert promotion you know, these sorts of companies along with the Ips that can do brand tie ins, whether that's, like a Disney tie in or even we've seen Gucci do really successful things with broad roblox, you know, these are all opportunities for them to capitalize on on on the meta. And if you think it, you know, think of them just talking all sorts of opportunities Gucci actually had an experience inside of robots and someone bought a virtual Gucci handbag for the equivalent of four thousand Us dollars. This is an item that you can't sell.

You... You know, it's it's... One person bought this just to have on their avatar for the equivalent of four thousand Us dollars. There's clearly an opportunity for brands to connect with different types of audiences. And so the meta is gonna be a huge way for them to do that.

Speaker 1: Matthew what a what a what a great summary of of of that point and and and I think that just to build what you've mentioned around Ip, this is such an exciting frontier for Ip owners, any artist if it's music movies any rigid piece of content. We're already starting to see as creators the type of opportunities that are coming. Across really exciting content verticals like fashion, music, sports you've mentioned earlier, you know, we... We've been fortunate do have investment from Warner and music group, You know, the third largest music company in the world and we're constantly exploring how can music really be not only reimagine, but what type of opportunities you create artists and very similar to fashion and I wouldn't I wouldn't think it's that crazy match to to assume or even bet that some of the most exciting artists in the future are actually gonna be born out of the universe. Some of them might actually be real humans, but some of them might even be, you know, conflicting you all avatars.

I'm excited about the, riot gigs music, vision they started. With complete virtual events. I'm excited about little Nasa and Travis Scott. There's so many possibilities as we start to look at how do we bring and create content in new ways, And how do we democrat further the power of creating you know, these type of content and making them accessible to, you know, millions of millions of people around the world. And, you know, being able to be in a concert with with a million people I don't think that's a concept that at the moment, a a difficult listener can actually grasp.

It's hard for me to grasp what it's going to feel like when I sit in a concert of, you know, of of a of a musician. And and together, with me in that particular virtual world is gonna be about a built million people. But this is this is where we're heading. This is the type of infrastructure that is being built. And when you think about that, it's it's just impossible not to get excited about it and as an entrepreneur ask yourself.

If this is what's gonna be available, what is the world that we want to help create to make it more exciting, more meaningful, more social, more human than ever before? And and I think there's gonna be a lot of kept people will say, oh, you know, in real life is really the way to live. And and and I think that's fair, and there's always gonna be in real life experiences and relationships. But I believe that in real life is going to feed into the members and the meta is going to make in life even more exciting than it used to be. And so building for that type of realization is is definitely priority know, for us and I'm sure for many other people.

Speaker 0: Totally agree. And, you know, I wanna, you know, we talked about moving on to this, and this is... The big rabbit hole that we're not gonna go completely down today. We're gonna touch on it and we'll come back to this area far more in depths in future episodes. But a lot of people talk today about the meta and and can't get past the impact of crypto, blockchain, N entities, decentralized platforms and how that affects the med.

But, you know, there there's a lot going on there. That's extremely interesting. I've I've seen, you know, we've seen things like Ak Infinity, which is still more a game. It's not a meta, but you know, we've seen kind of how they can reinvent game economics with N nxt at least for now. But what's your take on decentralized platform forms generally with the med and the impact of crypto blockchain, etcetera, and how you think these can...

Or they can. You know, work within kind of the walled gardens that are being built by the likes of Roblox, Facebook, epic, etcetera.

Speaker 1: I think first as as at a high level I believe that this centralization is going to be playing in an instrumental role in in the future of of many industries in the future of commerce in the future of finance in the future of of of the Internet the future of of interactive experiences, games, etcetera, etcetera. And I think that's pretty clear. With regards to the universe. Look, I think when when when I think about Crypto, you know, non fungi token, decent centralization to me it's freely about the opportunity of having open platforms where players actually own the economy. If you think today about a about apple ecosystem about through books.

You know, these are basically platform that are cl where the economies are owned by by the company by platform. And and just for, you know, some of our listeners who may not be so greatly deep the details. What this really means is that as a user any asset that you create any asset that you could consume any digital asset that you acquire or purchase inside, a platform like you may own it inside the platform, but you only own it when you're a user on that platform. If you decide you wanna take the the sort of the the accessory or the ava avatar skin that you purchase inside roblox or an epic, and you wanna take if we do, to another platform or keep it in, the decentralized wallet. You you can't do that because you are only eligible to use that inside platform.

And so I think the magic of of, in my mind of the centralization open platform, n thieves is really the opportunity to build virtual world's game experiences and interactive experiences overall. Where the economies and the digital assets are owned by the users by the players, and they get to choose where they wanna take it, and they can also traded and ultimately eternity to fiat money to actual money. I I think that inspired the whole new wave of of of a type of games like like infinity, which are, you know, kind of quality quote unquote play to earn, where you actually play the games and because you own these assets in connection iconic playing the games and sell these assets and so on and so forth. And so again, just the software could be the biggest thing about this centralization. Is the opportunity for players and users to own the digital assets to have player owned economies that to me is the big shift, the big thing.

And I believe and I vote that some of those other platforms like epic like which are, you know, very bullish on can participate in some shape or form in this wider trend and enabling an open potentially where Players can really jump around between this platform, which matthew, by the way, that has always been the promise of the aging. Using open protocols to do things together. Ultimately, the Internet took a very, very different shift with closed platform with the Apple ecosystem with the Facebook wall gardens. And so on and so forth And I think that ultimately transport evolved into the platform we see today, you know, like, epic like real square the network is still kind of the primary business model if you use some of the, some of the analog from a great thinkers are a great thinker of this states call you know, juice from Nyu, which I I I think at some point we shoot that as a guest on our on our podcast. And then I think we're moving into, air distributed platforms where, again, the user, the players, they have the dominant power here.

Taking the assets with them want to to move around. And and matthew, again, if we go back to what I've mentioned earlier today, we we is more moving from a old, an Internet consumer to a world of a med Ava avatar. As an Ava avatar, you're gonna want to bring your digital assets and accessories and skins. From one place to another. Otherwise, I think we're missing on this much, much bigger opportunity of what the managers could become.

I'm sure there's a lot of skeptical people. I know I don't know personally how this is gonna work and how it will be enabled because there's a lot to lose for those platforms. But again, this is what excites us about the decent centralization is the opportunity for, you know, player owned economies, player owned virtual world. And creating a world where there's gonna be even more opportunities to create prosperity for, you know, everyone around the world.

Speaker 0: I totally agree. I think it all comes back to what we talked about in the beginning. You know, I think the meta about expressing yourself in a digital virtual space as opposed in the real world and being able to take full ownership of that expression is what's gonna drive demand longer term. I mean, yes, there's things like Axiom Infinity that are blowing up today. That may or may not be sustainable, you know, for, you know, at the levels they're at just because of kind of, you know, the huge surge they're seeing.

But the technology that's being built that's underlying what they're doing, what others are doing, like, crucible, like, to central land, like the sandbox and others, You know, that's... Those technologies to have full ownership of your virtual self, that's gonna be something that's gonna be very powerful over the next, call it decade. Within the meta. With that, you know, I I think we've talked about some great topics. We we talked about defining the meta We talked about the key players and the key technologies.

We talked about, you know, who we think is gonna be, you know, the leaders the dark horses. We talked about distributed platforms. We talked about basically everything under the sun room a high level. This has been an excellent primer on the meta. We're looking forward to to to to doing more to having more guests come on and really take us on a deeper dive into the meta.