
Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers, social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta, brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest developments and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the meta.

Speaker 1: Alright. Hey, everyone. Welcome back to into the Med podcast, hosted by Bloomberg Intelligence and their senior analyst, Matthew and myself, Young founder Ceo of Super social. This is the last episode of the year, who would have known when we started twenty twenty one that the meta is is going to become this phenomena, the term that everyone talks about, almost a hundred and twenty references in q four earning calls mentions by publicly traded companies. It's really phenomenal to see the journey we've been through with the med and you know, being inspired by so many thought leaders anywhere from Matthew Bowl, too many, many others that they've started to be thought leaders in this space.

You know, Matthew and I have been fortunate to have a a great group of guests with us in in the first seven episodes that really proud of and And we hope as our audience, you've you've gained a lot of insight, wisdom, thought provoking ideas and perspective on what is the med today where we heading what the med is not. And so we're very excited to kind of do this, recap of twenty twenty one. Podcast and the episode we had and and give you a, a tease at, what what you should look for in twenty twenty two as we get back with more episode in, twenty twenty two, but Matthew, it's been a it's been a hell of a year. Really excited for this last app is a

Speaker 0: it been quite a year. I mean, I feel like at the start of the year, you know, you've been involved in this. I was, you know, you know, trying to understand and wrap my head around this concept of the meta and its investment implications. And I felt like I was yelling in an echo chamber for so long because I felt like no one cared. And then all of a sudden very quickly everyone cared for reasons that we'll get into.

But, you know, it it's it's been quite the the trip and quite the the shift in in, you know, expectations and sentiment and misunderstanding and misunderstanding of what the meta is. So definitely a good time to look back and a good time to look forwards.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent, a hundred percent. You know, it's been it's been phenomenal know to kick off the podcast and bring these guests and restarting to unpack, what a med means for investors, private investors, public investors, what it means for brands for companies for entrepreneurs for creators? What does it mean for the future of humanity for human behavior? What does it mean for different demographics, kids, grown ups elderly. There's just so many things as we think about the med evolving in becoming the the extension of what the Internet has been for many of us around the world in in the past twenty five, thirty years.

So Matthew, bringing bringing back our first question that we we seek to answer every episode you know, as we started from the first episode. How is how is your definition or our definition of the meta changed, or evolved during twenty twenty one. And and based on the conversations we've had, how is that shaped your definition of of the meta?

Speaker 0: I think for me, it's just the Nuance and being able to more coherent define this such broad concept, You know, And in the beginning, I had trouble you, I was using what it is and and kinda talking about the meta qualitatively, but, you know, having talked with Mark Petite from epic games and and a few others, like, Craig from roadblocks, and even, you know, when we spoke with yeast and just having fun. Right? You know, defining the meta, it's the Internet enabled by real time three d. And on the last earnings call, you heard Unity Ceo, John Talk about, you know, today, only two percent of the Internet's enabled by real time three d software. In ten years he thinks that'll be fifty percent, and that is the meta.

And I think that's the most coherent definition of the meta that I've have heard and that's kind of where I've stuck to in the last several months and and even over the course of the year. And, you know, I I think and it's a point that you made over and over, you know, it alongside what is the meta versus is what is not and I think particularly with one company tying the concept of the meta to Vr headsets into virtual reality into goggles. It's especially important that it's not any individual device, especially a Vr headset. The meta is the Internet. It's an insanely broad definition, but, you know, the...

It's device agnostic. It's access agnostic. And I think that's an, very important point for you know, refining the definition as well.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. I totally echo what you're saying, and I... You know, from from my vintage point, you know, I I I jumped into the med, no pun intended about... A year and a half years ago. You know, when we started super social in in around May twenty twenty, I remember being fascinated by the piece that Matthew Bowl wrote about, you know, what is the med person and who's is gonna build it?

Which to a lot... To a large extent laid out a lot of the foundations of of some of my earlier thinking about the med and and really realizing that, we're talking about the new frontier, But I think what was abundantly to me already at that point of time a year and a half ago was that the meta is going to reimagine our life in virtual spaces. It's been incredibly profound to see how human behavior has been impacted by the Internet. It's been incredibly rewarding for a lot of companies and creators to be able to build applications on top of technology that now billions of people interact around the world. And I think what Got be excited as we enter Covid around March April last year, of course, I was not excited about a pandemic, but would got me excited and what triggered my brain to move in that direction was the understanding that at that point of time, majority half maybe more of humanity's population has been glued to screens and being and being and being anchored inside their homes, that includes billions of young people around the world or we're out of school.

And I think at that point of time it became a abundantly to me that whatever the meta is, it's going to be an extension of reality because we're gonna be spending our life more and more in virtual spaces on phones, on Pcs. I think very soon they're gonna be displays everywhere. There's gonna be displays. In autonomous vehicles. They're gonna be displays in in planes.

There are gonna be displays everywhere we go. And so we are going to manifest our existence and our life. More and more into these immersive virtual spaces. And I think to add to what you said and what we talked about at planks in the podcast this year about the med being the evolution of the Internet, and essentially the next frontier of human experiences over the Internet, what it means to me is a paradigm shift in human behavior. And specifically, what I think is really important is the fact that we are going to manifest our existence are being, our personalities, our characters, our aspirations, our desires, we're going to manifest these into these little avatars that that run around these virtual worlds, and the beauty is that we are not even gonna have one identity.

One human beings in real life can have multiple entities in the universe. And that opens up so many possibilities. You can be Avatar with one personality at night. You can be Avatar. With the second personality in the morning.

You could probably have multiple jobs in the med. I think the whole notion of a job and what do you do for living is gonna is gonna be... Is gonna be changing because I'm gonna ask you, Matthew, when you ask me what am Doing for my living? What living is that? Is that living in the real life or you're talking about me living on the rob roblox universe or me on on on a, with my inter interrupt identity that is running between multiple virtual spaces on blockchain.

All of these things are going to change and morph into this new completely world. And lastly, what that means it's gonna open up whole new ecosystem. Of services. And every industry around the world, Every industry around the world is not only gonna be impacted by the emergence of the universe, but it's going to have to rethink what does the existence of the matter means for us? And I think it's anywhere from, of course, consumer products to entertainment to media, to health to financial services.

What does it mean to provide financial services to an ava avatar? What does it mean to have customer relationship management with an Nav avatar, someone who doesn't even look Real has a pseudo name and doesn't have an email address. He has a wallet. Right? So if all of these things are going to morph and change.

And I think it's fascinating that it's unknown and what's beautiful. And this is why I think there's so many definition at the moment the med. Everyone around the world is starting to create their own interpretation of what the med mean. I'm a big fan of this saying, the best way to predict the future and is to invent it. And that's what I'm trying to focus on with with my efforts and and and super social is to invent and create the future that we believe on.

We believe in. And what's amazing is there is all of these incredible companies that I know we're gonna touch upon today that are building the underlying technology, the fundamental infrastructure it's just mind blowing to think what can be built over the coming years, and and I'm I'm so grateful that we had the opportunity to start tapping into some of these things. You know, with with with the podcast.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. It it's it's been quite a year and, you know, as we look back, you know, I think I think the answer might be obvious and, or, you know, maybe you maybe it'll come up something different, but I feel like I'm tee you up since I'm giving it to you first. You know, in terms of looking back at twenty twenty one for you, what was the defining moment for the meta and and and and why?

Speaker 1: That's a great question. You know, I think there there... I would say there are two there are two defining moments, I believe for the this year. There is the more populist defining moment, which I would refer to as the introduction of Facebook with their new brand name as Meta. And the reason why I believe that was a defining moment is because I think it really took the conversation to a use strat here.

It took it from a place of technologies and and some, media outlets that are covering it and entrepreneurs and creators And it took it to completely new public conversation and discourse, where if you have a trillion dollar almost company, that change its name to Meta. I think that really contributed, especially at a both public company level. I think way more public company started pay attention and also public with with regards to just people. Regular people who are everyday consumers of the Internet. Really started to ask himself, wait.

What is this meta saying? What is going under there? I think the downside of that was that, suddenly, the med created a perception that it's about Facebook that it's about Meta. And also the the meta is something you access through goggles or or or headset through Vr. And and as you and I kind of clearly been saying and and continuing to argue, the is not a device, it's not something you access through a certain device.

The meta completely device agnostic. So I think that's kind of one defining, moment. And I think the the other... Really interesting defining moment in my opinion is the the Dip ipo of rob roblox. I think Rob roblox going public was really the the the gene wind defining moment of the med because...

And I'm not saying it just because I'm very bullish about Rob roblox as a platform. And I'm not saying it because I'm building a whole company that he's focused on rob robots at this stage. I'm saying it because when the med just started in terms of a concept the year and a half ago, which first thought leaders, Rob roblox was a publicly a private company with four billion dollar valuation. Fast forward to March twenty twenty one, when War roblox did their Ipo, their their direct listing, Rob roblox now is trading at about sixty to seventy billion market cap. And what Rob roblox did, they essentially introduced the concept of a consistent meta platform a really unified environment where you can build, launch and monetize massive large scale three d game worlds that are also accessible to a new generation.

And and and most fundamentally, roblox is also sort of in a way, not only a consistent meta platform. It's also the Internet homepage for a new generation of users of the Internet. These young people around the world I think at one point of time, eighty percent of the North American population below thirteen has been on the Roblox platform. And so again, to summarize, I think one defining moment, March April this year, Roblox directly listing staying becoming a publicly traded company and everyone really starting to pay attention to the matters, and then Facebook changing its name to met a couple of months ago really created a much wider discourse, especially with public companies and with the wider global population.

Speaker 0: You obviously, you hit the I obvious one which I was going for which was Facebook, and you even took my second answer, which I was gonna come back with is roblox listing. So I do have a three and a four, but they're probably not as good you know, since you took my top two. I think, you know, for me, the the the two that I'll look at then, roblox is most recent earnings report. And then also, like, the November stats they just put out. And I think what's most encouraging from those numbers and we'll dive into roblox a second more deeply, but the engagement everyone and myself included, I thought this would all fall off...

Not fall cliff, but it would definitely normalize to some degree out of twenty twenty into twenty twenty one. You know, the economic reopening in the West was pushing ahead. There was light at the end of the tunnel to a lot of the the pandemic in many markets. Obviously, that's a little bit in flux right now, but, you know, there was there was a lot of signs saying people are gonna go back to the normal way of life. So Roblox is gonna be a net negative as people go back to that.

And what's been most encouraging is that, actually, the the average time spent per daily active user has actually kept going up. Even even with this reopening with people quote and unquote going back to normal. So that's the most encouraging sign that I've seen that the meta is becoming entrenched in in the new normal, and it wasn't just a passing fad as a function of not being able to socialize physically. And, you know, I I looked at the numbers for November and in our October and in the last quarter. And, you know, basically, the on average a daily active user on Roblox spends three entire days per month on the platform.

Seventy two hours a month. That's amazing. When you just think about how many hours in a month, there are, how much other things there are in the world. And and so when you start to think about the amount of engagement that this platform has how sustained and growing, even with all of these, you know, negative pressures that you can talk about. That's one of the most encouraging signs that I've seen.

This is a real thing. That there's real demand for this virtual socialization that... That... And that this isn't gonna have legs beyond just a physical need for it during a very terrible pandemics pandemic. So that that was part a for me.

And then the other thing I'll just mention, you know, taking it back to the financial markets and we had Mario on our last episode, and he was fantastic, but the listing of a of an Etf in the United States with a ticker meta. I mean, obviously, they got a big benefit when Facebook changed name, but I think that's a big waters moment because, you know, when you see them mat Etfs come out like this. You know, that can really help to shift narrative and really attract attention. And I think that was also a big moment for the meta as well, you know, giving investors something to lynch, you know, lin in on and really kind of you know, you know, kinda look at as a benchmark for for the med going forward. So I thought that was also a really important moment.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. And, you know, and anecdote to support, which you just said, Matthew, I remember talking to a friend of mine, earlier dc see around January, February. And she's based in the northeast, and she told me, finally, she took the kids and they... She has for kids and they they went outside to the playground and the... It's it was very snowy you can imagine, you know, in Northeast in in January, February.

And after being outside, you would imagine with Covid. Oh my god. It's so far is family to be outside, and and she told me that after ten or fifteen minutes of being in the playground, one of her kids, I think he used these seven or six or seven told her You know, Mommy, can we go back home? I wanna... I wanna be on roblox.

And this is where an it hit to me that all the conversation around oh, once people go back to school, once kids go back to school. Everything will go back to normal. You're gonna see a massive drop of usage. And that quote, that sort of story for my friend really articulated to me that it's not gonna happen. Because what happened with Covid and with the acceleration of the meta emerging.

Is that there is a whole generation now of young people, millions of millions of millions of people around the world who this is the new reality for them, and it's never going back. They have the paradigm shift has already happened. Now it's how do we create a better world for young people that can manifest to the best ability, the real world and how do we merge the two together? I think the meta will only be as successful as it as we connected it to the real life and making sure that we don't lose our human touch, human connection, human identity it not only critical for human survival, but it will amplify ultimately what the meta, you know, could be. And and and lastly, on that, as someone that is based in Columbus, Ohio where apparently in twenty forty nine, you know, ready player.

One is happening. I don't envision the future of the world is a as a dystopian I envision the future of the world is a Utopia, and and and and and and I don't believe that the meta should be a place that he's, about es. I I really take I really take a lot of signals from companies like N who are building sort of these real life universe with Ar and connect activity to the real world. I think all of these things need to be built together, and we need to make sure that we don't alienate ourself from the real life because the real life is a big part of humanity, and it will continue to be a big part of humanity.

Speaker 0: It's also in in Columbus, Ohio also the place where it's been about seven hundred fifty days since Ohio State be Michigan now. Sorry Had to have to think that you had.

Speaker 1: I know you had to add it.

Speaker 0: You know, I I think one of the other things that people are trying to wrap their heads around is just you know, because the definition of the meta can get so broad. Right? It's the Internet, which is literally everything. You know, how big is this in terms of dollars? And what...

What's really at stake here? You know, we've put out our market size forecast, which, you know, puts an eight hundred billion dollar number on it. Tim Sweeney says this could be trillions. Matt Paul said the meta adverse economy could be... I I believe it was fifteen to thirty trillion dollars and by twenty...

You know, by... In a decade, these numbers are huge. And and and and I think that that just, you know, underscores the scope of what's going on. Right? This is...

And it goes back to the definition. Right? This is not just a Vr experience because you don't get anywhere close to those numbers. With Vr experiences, what whether you're looking today, ten years from now, whatever, You know, the the the vision for this the the way that these numbers come into scope is is by... You know, it it...

It's it's taking this this concept and applying it all the different businesses that you talked about, you know, whether it's the Crm software for the avatars, whether whether it's, you know, people just building experiences that bringing the creator economy talked but used about and into the med. Right? All of these things together collectively or what create this value create this economy. And and and and that's why it gets so exciting because, you know, it it does tie back to the definition, but, you know, these numbers do get huge because of because of just how broad based this trend, this movement is going to be.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent. And I think given the possibilities to reimagine so many industries, Matthew around the world. As we said earlier, every industry is going to be rei imagining what it means in a future where the meta exist. And when you think about it in that respect, I think today when people talk about... I think when when when when Bloomberg and the research you've done, is talking about eight hundred billion.

I think it's it's still in the realm in my opinion of that sort of entertainment, adjacent services, gaming and so on and so forth. I think when we talk about the meta as really the evolution of the Internet, it's really, like, going back twenty five years ago and asking, and hearing people saying that the Internet is gonna be a fad. No one is gonna really go and check it out. I think there's definitely still a lot of skepticism in around the world. That is that is natural.

There's obviously a lot of skepticism around what the meta, Oh, you're talking about the Internet. So, okay. So there's gonna be some three d stuff. How is that gonna matter too much? I very much subscribed to a world that the med could introduce trillion of trillions of dollars of about of of opportunity because it would impact essentially almost every economic activity that is happening around the world.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. I mean, if you look at the Internet, every industry got up and and revolutionized by the Internet, every industry got up and revolutionized by mobile and cloud. They all... The same thing with social, and the meta versus the next tech platform that's gonna revolutionize industries and how companies interact with consumers across the board, and that that's that's that's just, you know, why it's so exciting because it's going to be everywhere. So dive diving into, you know, I I know in the first episode, we kinda did a primer on the meta And again, if you know, if you're new to our, you could...

You, all of our podcasts are available on Apple and Spotify and on the Bloomberg terminal, but, you know, you can go back and listen to kind of the overview we gave of some of the key players I thought it'd just be a good opportunity to come back and take a look at kind of, you know, who did the most to advance the meta in twenty twenty one to drive the development to drive us towards this vision. Obviously, there's a few key leaders, some of whom we've had on the podcast in in recent weeks, but you know, any anyone in particular come to mind that you wanna call out?

Speaker 1: Yes. I think there has been a lot happening in the world of startups and corporations, definitely important to highlight some of the companies in my opinion that are building really the underlying technology of the med and and ideally, the open universe where there is interoperability and connectivity among all these platforms. The companies, I think that are worth calling out in terms of, underlying platform in my mind is, you know, of course, rob roblox, with with with the consistent ben platform that they've built for a new generation, of of creators and new generation of consumers, and you can see the the rush of a lot of brands and companies and and developers coming into the Robust platform. I think epi games with their collection of properties, if it's fortnite that in and of itself could become a med and a platform, And, of course, Dia Unreal engine that he's, you know, arguably the most advanced game engine elder there and one should only look at what they've recently accomplished with the matrix experience that they've created, which is really, really inspiring and mind boggling and this is where we're heading. Right?

These type of virtual environments will be available in the universe for us to roam around as as as people as avatars. Unity has been making steps stored. The med, of course, being such a profound game engine, with its with its success with mobile developers, Of course, Facebook and and they're transition to Meta and what they're doing with Facebook reality labs, Microsoft and Nav nvidia, are both, I think at the enterprise level are going to be really important players in the matters. Microsoft also has X xbox, which is interesting to see how slowly of the years. They're going to connect that to a meta first conversation.

Nav video, although though is very on the enterprise level. I believe they have a distribution platform of games in in the cloud called Go force. I would not be surprised if in the next couple of years, we're gonna hear that Nav nvidia, as some sort of a consumer meta that they're going to introduce. So, you know, watch out for that. And then I think on the brent side, I definitely wanna call out specifically, you know, Nike because they've not only launched a brand world on roblox that shows that they're thinking and they're active, and Think there's definitely other brands that are worth mentioning, And then in in parallel, they've also acquired an N creator studio called Rd artifact.

And and I think... I believe that you put your money where your mouth is. And I think it's inspiring to see a consumer brand like Nike, making those type of investment both on a platform like robo and acquiring a company. And I think this is going to lead to a lot of follow on activities by other consumer brands, and and I can tell you we're seeing it ourselves as as super social.

Speaker 0: I absolutely agree. You know, a a couple of points that I'll make. You you mentioned Nvidia and... This is an interesting one because I think people still think of nvidia as a Gpu company, and that's totally fair because that's the bulk of their business, but when it comes to the meta, Nvidia is not relevant just because they make Gpus and just because, you know, they help you see the meta. But, you know, if you look get at the software stack that they're building.

You look at the potential, as you mentioned for them to build their own consumer meta platform. You know, there's a lot more under the hood than just get Gpus there. And that... That's what's really exciting about Nvidia when it comes to the med. You know, I I also wanna, you know, give a little bit of a local flare here in Hong Kong in in the Greater China region.

You have to look at tencent, You know, nothing really happens in the... Let's call it broadly interactive entertainment space without tencent having its tentacles within it as You know, they're the largest investor in Epic games who's obviously, you know, driving a lot of the investment here. They're an investor and roblox. They They also have their own initiatives internally in their own internal game studios and other meta studios. They're they're clearly gonna put together something quite interesting.

You know, we've talked at length about the opportunity with virtual concerts, Tencent Music is a listed affiliate. It's a subsidiary of tencent. They're already, you know, them in their arrival. Net Cloud village are already pushing ahead with virtual concerts, actually, much more rapidly than Western companies are already. You know, that's already kind of bringing these meta, like experiences to consumers today.

So there's a lot of cool things happening in Asia and China, we look at Korea, you know, neighbor just spun out. You know, it's it's one of its meta apps. They have a couple of them that are competing with each other right now. But this one just raised a lot of money from from an outside investors to spin out separately, Sk telecom, their investment group, you know, basically just said that every investment they're gonna make has to be a med adverse company now going forward. So there's tons of tons of act, and in the Asian side as well.

That's really exciting. And and and and so, you know, you know, it's... You know, a lot of a lot of focus obviously went to Facebook and Meta, and and then we went to the tencent analyst call, the earnings call right after that name change, and, you know, I I I think the analyst on the call need to come back and listen to our podcast because they didn't under understand what the meta versus is or or what this is. You know, they just think it's a game platform it's a Vr headset, and and and that that loses a lot of the nuance and understanding that that that I think we brought to the table, and so, you know, when you think about how prolific tencent has been in, you know, anticipating that changes in consumer online entertainment, interactive entertainment and being at the forefront of it for the last couple decades, you know, they're gonna be a force to be reckon with as this as the meta evolves. And then, you know, I I think one of the other big things that that we've talked a lot about and, you know, Crypto bros.

This this is your time to dial in and really pay attention, but you know, we've talked a lot about the convergence of trends such as blockchain and N t's and the meta This is something that I get a lot of questions about. This is something that I get a lot of bad questions about. And and and and it's really important to kind of dissect, but you know, Y and I'll put it to you first, and then I'm happy to follow on. How does how did blockchain in N t's and and in these emerging technologies that people people like to call Web three? They like to call decentralized.

How does that fit into your definition of the meta and how and and and and how has your view of these technologies within the meta changed during twenty twenty one during our podcast.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think that Look, let's start with blockchain. In in my mind, blockchain is really the sort of the financial of pieces of the Internet. What it really does, it gives a stake of ownership on a digital asset. And that could be inside the game that could be a piece of artwork that could be a music piece.

Really, I think ultimately, anything on the Internet is now can now be financial. And I think that's exciting. That gives a sense of ownership that give a stake of wealth that is based on a digital asset. That is really, really profound. Having said that, in my mind, that doesn't necessarily mean it has to be about a med.

I think that is more profoundly about the web. That is more profoundly about the Internet as an infrastructure. Until today, you know, echoing what people, like And others are saying, The first generation of the web was about reading. The second generation of the web was about reading and writing, producing content that ultimately became the ownership of their centralized platforms like, if it's, you know, a platform like Facebook or or Instagram or Tiktok and Youtube and so on and so forth. And I think we're moving to this kind of third generation of the web which is dubbed web three that really gives everyday users everyday creators, the ability to own pieces of the Internet and to own the content that they create.

This in my mind, will have profound implications about economy and about the ability of people to create new type of career jobs and wealth creation prospects for themselves. I do believe that that sort of financial centralization of of of digital assets is going to be connected directly to the med because I believe they're going to be meta opportunities, meta environments where you can not only be part of these immersive three d multiplayer worlds and environments if it's gains or or concerts and so on and so forth that are immersive where you can live with your avatar or multiple identities. Definitely, that's going to be connected to that. But I think web three and financial commercialization of digital assets in P goes beyond that. And I think there's gonna be elements that are directly correlated with the universe, and there's gonna be elements that are not.

But I do not think in my mind that Web free or the third generation of the Internet. Of the web is the med. I think those are two distinct concepts at the moment in my mind that can... That really correlate and can leave together But each of them has their own profound implications, opportunities, and the paradigm shift that they're gonna have on human behavior.

Speaker 0: I totally agree and and one other thing that I'll add, it's it's come up in a lot of the conversations I have with investors. You know, as soon as they think blockchain N, They think interoperability and bring being able to bring elements of your avatar to different experiences. And for a lot of people, whether it's because they don't understand or because they've been zeitgeist sit into it, they think that interoperability is only achievable. With blockchain and N t's. And, you know, I think it's important to make the point that that's not the case.

Right? That's a technology decision to enable a business. The business decision first his interoperability, we talked about this with Craig when we had our roblox episode. Right? You know, if if if they were at a point today where they wanted to enable interoperability.

They could, and they could do that without blockchain and T's. And then the technology decision you make to enable that could be blockchain and N t's, but it doesn't have to be in a lot of investors come to me and ask which platform, which N energy, which blockchain and it's like, you know, and it I also go back to what Yeast was telling us again, about it has to be fun. Right? You're you're asking the wrong question first? You know, the first question is is is interoperability a good business decision for these platforms?

And is it gonna make it more fun? And then if that's the case, then you have to ask what's the right technology for that. And then if the answer is blockchain, then you can ask those questions. So you're kinda two or three questions removed. So from from where you actually want to be.

You've already made a few pre assumptions that may not be valid. And and that's something that I've had a lot of conversations with investors about and you know, I I try to talk them back off that cliff and understand exactly what's going on. Because to your point, I think there's a lot of people that are kind of bringing these terms, these ideas, the meta, the quote unquote web three, blockchain T's together and and s them together and tying them together, as if they all come together no matter what, and I don't... That's not necessarily the case.

Speaker 1: Exactly. And, you know, I think another piece is, I love what you said around in terms of when you when you wanna build something on blockchain or you wanna create this sort of inter interrupt experience, ultimately, especially with an interactive experience or a game. It needs to be fine. It needs to be engaging. There needs to be a reason for people to come back, and it has to be more than just quote unquote the money, even though money is important, but it has to be more than that.

And so I think there's definitely gonna be cases where it's more about the money and there's gonna be cases where it's more about engagement and fun and they're gonna be people who care more about money. And they're gonna be people who care more about the fun. I think that's totally okay. As long as you really understand why you're building what you're building and why would people care about it. And one of the things that I think are also profound the pre at super social we ask yourself all the time is sure.

N entities, crypto blockchain provides enormous opportunities especially when you think about user or player owned economies, one of the thing that we're re asking ourselves a lot is what it is that we're going to build that takes advantage of the uniqueness of what blockchain provides. That is a question that I think not enough people are asking themselves. I expect these to become a more important question as the this technical environment and the possibilities mature And, ultimately, once the first wave of application comes to life, I think it's going... There going to be a, a, kind of a a, a realization that there's some critical questions that needs to be asked, what is going to be an experience that people find meaningful that people find unique and important in their lives. And how do you take advantage of the unique capabilities that Blockchain provides.

And and and to your point, we cannot be the deter about it? Blockchain is a thing. It doesn't mean everything needs to become a blockchain. But I think we're definitely on the right path and on a journey that is a many years journey in my opinion where we're going to slowly slowly discover really, what are the type of application and and value propositions that not only deliver value to people in their lives but also take unique advantage of of the infrastructure.

Speaker 0: Totally agree. And, you know, as as we start to wind down on the episode, you know, I wanna wanna turn from looking back to looking ahead. And as we look ahead into twenty twenty two, it's clear that, the hype cycle is boiling over right now, it's clear that everyone and their mother is trying to be a Med company. Heck even Bai do is now has a Meta platform, and that's a you don't know by bai do because you're not in China. They are the search platform of China, and they have autonomous vehicles.

And now they have a Meta platform. But, you know, as we look ahead, you know, what's your one big prediction for the meta in twenty twenty two or a or a couple big predictions if there's not one big one outstanding.

Speaker 1: Well, you know, I think the gotta be careful with predictions. I like making kind of decade long predictions. But if I... If you're push me against the wall and you you you you wanna you wanna talk about twenty twenty two, I think the the the biggest prediction is that, the the amount of capital invested in med related companies and ventures I think is going to be at least ten x what it's been today. I wouldn't be surprised if we're talking about multi billion dollars of investments and this is just startups and private companies.

I also believe and maybe that's kind of prediction number two that the meta is going to be something that almost almost every Fortune five hundred company Ceo, especially at the consumer landscape but also enterprise software and and potentially the other industries, every almost every Fortune five hundred Ceo is going to have to talk about a conversation and have a conversation about strategy and what does the meta mean for us? I think we're we're looking at a hundred and nineteen references by public company Ceos, in earning calls, that outlined the med. I think the... That's that's probably gonna grow by anywhere from ten to twenty x next year. So these are the couple of things that I believe are gonna happen.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. I... You know, just to your point, Facebook alone is gonna spend ten billion dollars on you know, broadly the horizon and all of the associated technologies, and, you know, some of that's gonna go to Vr and Oc, which may not directly be med, but you know, there's lots of money pouring in. We heard Microsoft outline their plans. So this kinda of ties into my key prediction.

You know, there's companies that we haven't heard from. Around their meta plans. And I think the two that stand out the most to me are Apple and Google. I think that in twenty twenty two, we're gonna get concrete plans from Apple and Google around their meta strategies. You know, I think for Apple, they're under the gone in lots of different avenues of their business, especially the app store distribution, and, you know, I've talked at length about this with on another podcast podcasts and on and everywhere, You know, way recently did a podcast with Joe Kim on game makers you can go check that out.

It's a it's a fantastic conversation, but we talked about App store distribution and one of the things I like, you know, I've I've I've looked back on and and kinda put together in my head is that you know, Epic games is fighting Apple over distribution now because the meta is coming, and they wanna get control over distribution ahead of the meta. And so it's increased... It's it's just as important for Apple because how does Apple remain relevant in the meta as a distribution platform or can they? Or what's their strategy? Does it tie around Ar goggles.

And with, you know, with with rumors of a device coming out there has to be applications that take advantage of that. And it's clear that there's gonna be some sort of a meta play around that. And so I think Apple is going to, you know, lay the foundations of an Apple meta strategy which I think will be quite interesting. And I also think for Google, you know, there's been some reports recently that they've restructured things internally to kind of put assets together into kind of a meta team. It's basically what we saw happen at Facebook before they started talking about med and then rebranded the company.

So I think something similar is gonna happen over there, and they're gonna have you know, a a more streamlined coherent strategy like, we've heard from Facebook Meta. Like, we've heard from Microsoft. So from the public company angle, I... That's that's something that I'm watching. And then the other thing I'm I'm just watching out for is, you know, you mentioned that the number of mentions of meta irreversible surge, extreme amounts.

But I think at some point, we'll start to see the trough of dis as Ga calls it come into play. As I mentioned, the hype cycle was blowing its top off. Everyone is getting in the pool. You know, it it every everyone's rushing in to to get to to claim this to to ride the wave right now, and it's it's it's it's all over the place. Everyone's talking about meta because of Facebook.

But I think in a year, people are gonna look back and be, like, not much has changed. Why was there so much hype over this, and it's gonna go back into kind of the development and focus on the the the key underlying technology development, which you know, as Craig told us Right? We're in the first inning. We're not anywhere close to being done building this stuff. And so, you know, I I think that, one of the most important things that people need to understand is that the hype cycle will inevitably die down.

There's a lot of interesting things going on. It's There's still a long way to go to realize the true vision of the meta and where we're going. And so we have to look through that trough of dis that will hit whether it's... I think it'll be sometime next year, but maybe it'll be twenty twenty three if we get more lockdown downs and people have to go back to using these services even more. But you know, what whatever it is, there definitely be that that that phase where we start to kinda question it and give up on it.

And I think the time where, you know, as investors, whereas as people that are interested in it. If you're looking to start companies in the space. That's when it gets most interesting to me. When everyone's pulling out and everyone's taking starting to say, and that's not for me. I'm gonna go to the next big thing, that's when it gets interesting, and that's when you can really start to lay the groundwork for real success down the road.

Speaker 1: I absolutely agree with you. And I am excited about the point of time next year, if your prediction is correct, and I think there is a high probability. It is I am excited about the point of time where, the hype is slower, the hype is smaller, and the real builders remain excited about the possibilities of what the meta is going to be. I think it's natural. I think it's natural.

And we've seen it every time. We've seen it with the Internet. We've seen it with e commerce. We've seen it with social media. You know, remember, sal, social, local mobile.

Right? I mean, right, web two o, social media, with with mobile, there's there there's there is the occasional, hype... I think we're just living in a world in a point of time where the amount of hyped words and terminology has never been greater. I think the year of the word could be any one between meta, N t's crypto, defy... I mean, really anything goes at the moment.

And so I think it's important to ultimately go back and focus on the fundamentals, which are incredibly exciting, go back and focus on building, application, services, experiences that real people resonate we and love. And ultimately, building things that can also end up becoming of great value to humanity and of great financial value to the builders and to the communities. And and and definitely, the financial centralization of the Internet is is exciting and we'll provide these opportunities. You know, the will introduce opportunities for us to immerse ourself in virtual worlds as Avatars, and and it's really inspiring. We're in the very, very, very early days of this evolution or next iteration of the Internet.

And that is really, really exciting.

Speaker 0: It's exciting times. And and so, you know, with that, we'll wrap up for for twenty twenty one, we'll see you all in twenty twenty two as we go even deeper into the meta.