
Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers, social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta, brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest developments and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the meta. Welcome to the latest edition of into the meta brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence I'm Matthew Can.

I'm a senior equity research analyst with Bloomberg intelligence and my c host is Y on Ross Friedman, the Ceo and c founder of Super social. A company making games and experiences for the meta starting with roblox. We're super excited to to be recording today with a really interesting guest, you know, for me own, you know, obviously, I come from the financial industry, my view on on looking at the meta versus, you know, it at the end of the day. It's... Yeah.

I'm... I love it as a schumer, but I'm interested in it as an analyst as well from the financial side and, you know, we're we're we're really excited to bring in Mario Stephan. He's a vice president of research from from round hill investments. They have a super, you know, super successful really right out of the gate Etf, tracking the med. You know, he's been playing roadblocks for years, so he'll be a great guest to kinda give us the user experience, but also the market experience, Welcome Mario.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Thanks so much for having me be honest script to speak to both of you again.

Speaker 0: So I I know we did a webinar a couple, you know, probably almost a year ago now, you know, looking at you know, roadblocks and the opportunity and the med. And I I think one of the things that Y and I have like to talk a lot about what the guests we've brought on the podcast is you know, this really important question that I've I've said at a time. It it sounds simple, but it's it's quite important, you know, to you and and you work with Matt Ball and in creating the fun that you guys have that super successful. That's the the ball round hill. I'm gonna butcher you the name, but you can correct me.

The ball around home meta Etf. It's the Meta ticker. You guys have done a lot of work in defining what the meta is. But if you could kinda just, you know, give us your analysis and and your overview of how you guys define the med in constructing your your your portfolio. And then I think most importantly is is also what is not the meta?

Because I think that's a really important point to make as well.

Speaker 1: Sure. So two two great questions to get us started. I think in the simplest terms, the meta versus going to be the successor to the current Internet and it's going to be an inter inter synchronous persistent series of virtual spaces that bridge both the digital and physical worlds. And, you know, the meta right now is way beyond our current reach due to technological limitations, but, there are companies, particularly gaming companies who have created experiences within music gaming sporting events that are going to define that kind of outer layer of the meta. And then, you know, just going a little bit deeper.

There's also an infrastructure layer a technology layer a networking layer that needs to be built first for those experiences to eventually live on and to be able to facilitate the millions of concurrent players that the meta ambitions. So I think in a in a nutshell, that's what the meta is an inter persistent. Synchronous successor to the current Internet. And in terms of what it is not, I think the most common misconception is that the meta versus virtual reality. People think that when you put on a Vr headset and you go into a world like Vr chat, for example, that that's the meta.

It it's really not because in chat, you're maybe playing with a couple dozen people, max, there's latency. There's not interoperability ability the worlds are, not synchronous, they're discreet standalone worlds. And you know, that's what the meta is not. It it it is not a virtual world, and it it's not just a digital world either. The the meta is going to span both the physical and the virtual world So, even Ar experiences, like some of the stuff that nintendo, for example, is doing now, we'll be something that you can envision seeing in the meta.

Speaker 0: I think that's a great point. And I think it's important to hit that home. You know, it's not just virtual worlds if you look at Disney world in Los Angeles where they have the Star Wars, you know, Theme park where they use Unity and other in real time three d software to enhance the physical world. That is also the net. You know, maybe Bob Ig doesn't realize that because he said that Disney plus is is their meta.

But the the meta isn't just a screen, It isn't just a device. It's it's anything that's enabled by real time three d. And I think that's a really important point that you made.

Speaker 1: Yeah. There's there's a lot of misconceptions of over what the meta versus, particularly when you hear private companies like Disney, saying, oh, we're we're gonna create our own meta. Like, I'm sure at Disney world will be an awesome experience within the med, but the meta won't just be... There won't be a Disney meta. And maybe we can talk a little bit about this down the line, but there's a lot of talk about what China's role in the meta is going to be and I I would argue that, China also cannot create their own meta.

I think there needs to be global cooperation and the meta is going to be a single entity rather than a number of disparate events.

Speaker 2: Yeah. I think I think that's definitely an interesting topic to kind of unpack and highly disputed, of course, given the the parallel Internet that China has created, kind of almost with a cyber wall, And I think that's gonna definitely be interesting to look at as either later in this conversation or as a separate conversation and Matt and I are definitely interested in unpacking the China angle when it comes to the med. But, you know, going back to what are some of the things that constitute the as emerges, you know, I think one of the thing we we continuously discuss in these podcasts and in other opportunities is the fact that the meta is also in a way, the next frontier of social human experiences over the Internet manifested in these, you know, real time three d large scale environments, and you know, is someone like yourself, Mario who has been playing Rob roblox for a long time and he's also a gamer and you know, we think it makes sense to think of you, especially as a kind of core user of, what emerged as a a premier meta, consistent meta platform like rob roblox.

And so the next question we have for you is from your perspective, as a user, but also as an analyst, how have these platforms evolved over time, and more importantly, what have been the key evolutions that elevate them to Med platform versus just gaining platforms, and you can give a historic view of how they evolved over time. And also take a stab at, what's the next several years could look like for this platform? Because You know, there is a race to the moon between Il elon and the race to Mars between Elon Musk and bezos and then there's the race to the members, which I'm more I'm more interested in personally. So what what's your take on where we came from and where we're going with regards to, you know, these emerging platforms?

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think the first things that could be thought of, like, Pro experiences were, M mmo rpg. And I think having the Internet get to a point in the late nineties and early two thousands, where even a dozen people could interact with each other. Not on land anymore, you know, or over the actual Internet was a very big evolutionary point in the development of web two point o. And you look at games like second life, for example, that game was really way ahead of its time because there was never a forum before where you could customize a digital avatar, hop into any number of worlds that you wanted and talk not only with your friends, but also the people you had never met before and forge friendships.

I mean, the there were even weddings in that game, Right? And also, in terms of a thriving economy, digital parcels and and real estate on second life, we're we're getting sold for tens of thousands of dollars. So I I I think second life did a very, very good job in defining some of the characteristics that games going forward would need to kind of delve into this pro meta state. And I think roadblocks when it came out in two thousand six, which is not super far off from when some of the first popular Mmo like roll of work Came. I think that was two thousand four.

Did a great job at defining that vision, but it was still too early. I joined Roblox in two thousand seven. I was I think one of the first first seventy thousand users. And I even remember, the platform hitting a hundred thousand users came, like, the subsequent year. So it was really, really slow.

And levels were capped at eight to twelve people. So not the type of, un untapped necessity that the med that the med needs, and there was significant latency problems, but it did a really, really good job at implementing the building blocks that roadblocks now utilizes to compensate creators I think the number this year is gonna be over half a billion dollars. Like, that wasn't even fathom back in in the late two thousands. Levels for the most part were created by the admins in the moderators on the website. Some of the most popular levels that I remember were were made by the mods.

And now there's a full fledged user generated economy that not only spans cosmetic items, but also spans levels themselves you can even advertise your own level on roadblocks now with robots, which I think is awesome. So it's really come a long way. And I'm excited by what I see with roblox. I think the beta now, seven hundred players can play concurrently. So it's really getting there.

But at the end of the day, when you play on a level in in roblox, your separate your server is separated from not only the other servers running that instance, but also from, other levels as well. So you can't just hop from adopt me to a sword fighting game. You need to physically leave and rejoin with an entire... Entirely new group of people. And I think the interoperability aspect of the med is going to be the most important thing to tackle.

But whoever can do that successfully is going to open the door for a number of dis joint experiences to come together and create a full fledged economy in a full fledged social media platform as well.

Speaker 0: I think what you're saying resonates really well with what Craig Don was talking about on our last episode where he talked about we would love to have this vision for an open inter opera meta, but we need to build the technology first and everything you're saying is totally aligned with that, you know, he said we're still in the first inning. I don't even know if we're out at the top of the first yet. It might not even be the bottom of the first inning yet. You know? And so you know, there's a long way to go to make these you know, massive scale, immersive experiences within a closed ecosystem before we can even think about opening those up.

And I think that's a really important point for for people to understand that. You know, there's a lot of hype about the matter today. Heck, we have a podcast about it. So, you know, that that underscores the hype, but there's also, you know, a lot of development that needs to be done on the way to to realize this vision.

Speaker 2: A hundred percent. I totally echo with both of your saying. I just wanna comment on one of the things that Mario mentioned for our audience, which is really interesting. I'd think the notion of, we have had Mmo or massive multiplayer online game environments for a while now. Right?

That I'm sure a bunch of people here. Who listening to the podcast podcasts at Plague of Legends and world of warcraft and and a bunch of others. And so when we think about meta environments is not necessarily just by companies who have been building platforms per s from day one. Like, roblox. Obviously, we know about efforts from other companies, and we're gonna talk about that in a few minutes.

But I think it's also interesting to think about who are those massive Mmo that historically have been really, really large over the past ten, fifteen, twenty years. That could also potentially build meta within their game ecosystems. Obviously, we know that epic to a large think of Fortnite and as as as as a game that he's becoming can become a platform and and later on a universe and I recall the tweet from Theme Sweeney, I think, couple of years ago, someone asked him he's fortnite to again, and he said at the moment it's a game, but asked me again in a year. And so, you know, I think I would not underestimate underestimated at all the world of Warcraft over the world, all of these Mmo that have emerged, we'd steal millions of users, looking at companies like riot games. If anyone things that riot games doesn't have internally a conversation about what does the mean for us?

He's obviously not paying attention to what come... Other companies are doing who come from the game side versus the platform like Robo. So, yeah know, I think it's a it's a it's a super fascinating interior at the moment.

Speaker 1: Yeah. And it's also very helpful that, a lot of these games have now been out for ten, fifteen plus years, I think we're entering this new environment where instead of titles being released cyclical, like annually or every other year. Developers are sticking with the same title over a number of years, monetizing that game as a service, and building layers on that game technologically to create, you know, an ever enhancing experience. You think about league of Legends, This game's been out since two thousand and nine how many more players does it have now how many more champions does it have now? Dota two, the most the highest prized pool esports in the world and one of the most popular esports in the world has been out since two thousand thirteen, world the warcraft has been out...

Like I said since two thousand four. These these games have now been out for a significant amount of time. And even in terms of first person shooters. So, for example, call of duty, you know, call of duty is launched annually. But act activation has found their most success with War zone, which is a service based title.

I I I I think if developers are still clinging to launch Windows. I think a lot of them are gonna revisit that and start to launch these individual experiences that are constantly updated as a service and are allowed to build into the next meta.

Speaker 0: Yeah. And I I I I think that's really important that, you know, we think about, you know, these these gaming companies elevating their experiences and shifting their strategy And, you know, I think that's a nice tie in to to my next question that I wanted to dive in And I wanted to give you, you know, a little bit of time to to talk about the Etf and the index and all the success you guys are having because, you know, I can't seem to keep up with where the Au is on a daily basis because I'm based in how and every morning I wake up and See you've added another hundred million dollars or so. And it's like, you know, it's absolutely bonkers how crazy things have been for you guys and it's fantastic for you guys. But you know, you know, if you just think about kind of some of the construction work that you did with Matt Ball and and his his counsel of experts that you've done to create the index and you know, the refined strategy you really brought to creating it because as you define the meta as we define the meta, it's the Internet So from a broad description, every company is a med earth company because every company has a presence on the Internet.

So you take a much more refined approach. And so Can you talk about, you know, when you constructed the index with them or how they did it and how you guys express it? You know, how did that strategy get refined how did you narrow down to the companies that are in the fund? And and how does that represent what you guys think are the leaders in the meta today?

Speaker 1: Yeah. So Matthew will has been working on this index since late twenty twenty. And for reference, we launched, June t, twenty twenty one. So it's really been in the oven a while. And I think the key question that he was posed with was if this index launched today, are there enough companies that could be defined as meta companies to to really launch this index or companies yet deriving their revenue from Meta sources.

And twenty twenty one has really showed us that companies are explicitly redefining their strategy focus on the meta. And I think, Facebook state, change to Meta platforms is the number one endorsement of that, the seventh biggest company in the United States, essentially becoming a meta first company. But when we launched June t, we have the same methodology that we have now, and that is defining the meta in seven categories, and I'll go through them quickly. It's computing. So the company enabling and supplying computing power to support the meta, networking, companies that provide connections and bandwidth and data services to consumers, virtual platforms, which are companies that, develop and operate immersive digital simulations and worlds, interchange standards.

So the companies that creating the protocols and tools for the med, payments, content assets and identity services and hardware. So those seven categories are what we use to define the index and within that, Matthew Ball and his team assign all very large universe of companies, I think it's over a thousand companies into one or more of these categories. And within those categories, companies receive a, a rating. So it's kind of this composite between, how many categories are you in? What's your rating in those categories?

And from there, you get the composition of the index. And, you know, over time, I think the number of constituents in that index are going to narrow as the meta gets more and more refined, even launching in in June, the index had fifty companies. And as of the last rebalance, which was a couple months ago, the index now has I I believe forty two companies. So that's kind of where we're at and, how the index has constructed. And behind that, it's Matthew Ball and a team of, six individuals on his expert counsel who have a wide range of experience within the meta, individuals who have worked for oc Facebook of valve in Aws to to name a few.

When we launched... We were pretty successful out of the gate, Matt kin attest to this, but launching a new Etf, typically, sees you start with low volume, low inflow. Even before Facebook's name change on October twenty eighth, we had a hundred fifty million inflow into the fund. So for all intents and purposes, it was going well, but I think that announcement really supercharged interest in the med, people were looking for ways to get exposure to the space, and the Etf really allows you to do that in a diversified manner, not doing security selection on individual companies, but rather this diversified basket of that contains companies that some or more that may become key players in the meta. So since that point, we went from a hundred fifty million in assets to.

I think we're just over eight hundred now. It... It's hard to keep up on our end too because of both the volatility, as well as the inflow, which are the two components of Au. But, yeah, We've been really happy with the success at the fund had where happy that our audience, which is almost exclusively retail, can appreciate what we've done here, and we think that we have the right fund to allow investors to get exposure to this emerging space.

Speaker 2: I feel bad for the eight companies that dropped, that sadly had been dropped out of the index, good luck to them as they say. And so you know, picking up on on on on this point and the success and congratulations again to all of you for really stellar growth over the past couple of months. Obviously, it's been a crazy ride for Meta, and and over the last few weeks, starting with the brand of Facebook to become met the platforms. And then catalyze by strong results across the board. Any meta player or meta related company, rogue roblox unity, etcetera, etcetera, all gave very strong quarterly reviews.

And also, there were announcements for Microsoft about their enterprise And, of course, there is the Ja out Nav nvidia that he's tracking closely towards it one trillion dollar company, which if you would ask anyone couple of years ago, it would sound completely completely unimaginable. And so looking at all of these announcements and updates from some of these major companies. And we're seeing these crazy inflow into into the your Etf what are these flows coming from? Where are these flows coming from? And what does it say about investor interest in the med, and and and and I think would be great for our listeners to get your commentary both from the retail investor but also the institutional one.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think it's... In terms of the retail and institutional, quote unquote divide. I think in our case, it's actually very similar. So Like I said, our strategy is primarily geared towards retail investors.

We have no outbound salesforce, which is pretty rare for an Etf company. All of our thought leadership and research is dis either on our social media, mainly lead Twitter. We publish research on our website as well. And we have a newsletter that, I think has just over ten thousand subscribers. So we have a a few outlets with which to dis dominate our stuff and institutions in Retail are both looking at it alike.

So it's really a level playing field kind of in line with the spirit of the meta meta, we have kind of a an equal playing field with with our investor base. They're they're both consuming the same content and, you, no one's really getting preferential treatment in terms of, who is is purchasing our fund that research that they're consuming. So I would say that the fund is probably ninety percent retail assets currently in ten percent institutional. It might even be less. But these investors are a lot of them are new to investing, especially post Covid.

We've seen obviously a surge in the trading apps in in the retail trading environment. And a lot of these people are becoming buy and hold investors kinda for the first time after we themselves off meme stocks. So, you know, it's it's yet to be seen if they'll really stick with us through our journey, but we've made it pretty clear that the meta versus not something that's going to be realized overnight. It's gonna be probably a decade or more until there is actually a meta person in place. And maybe in the next five years, you'll start to see a lot more on the experiences front.

But it's really the infrastructure and the technology that is the most significant hurdle. And institutions appreciate that, and they'll probably be some of the stick assess that's set the fund test. But you know, it it it's yet to be seen if retail will weather, the various bumps in the road that we've had.

Speaker 0: I think that's an important point because, you know, we're building and launching our Bloomberg, med index, and you guys have yours and I know we're technically gonna be competing. But, you know, I think it's good for the industry overall to have successful products. We've seen some others come out in other jurisdictions in Asia, particularly. But they don't necessarily, you know, to someone like me who's been studying the space. They don't look like pure meta.

They kinda just look like, diversified T baskets where they slap med on it, to ride the hype and. I think one of the things you're talking about One of the things that we've tried to talk about is building a sustainable product to your point that can ride these market cycles. I mean, Meta has been super successful. You guys have other funds that you know, I'm looking at, like Mvp and some of the others, your sports one. Right?

They haven't done as well. Your Bet Z etf did do exceptionally well right out of the gate. But, you know, Can you just talk about when you're when you're thinking about building these funds when you're thinking about these long term themes, you do really need to build something that is to sustainable for the long term. Right? You can't just be thinking about a near term bump.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Having a rules based methodology, that is rational and somewhat systematic is very important to make these products scalable, especially when, working with a small team like we have And Matt is kind of an endorsement for this new kind of model that we're trying out of partnering with thought leaders and various sectors of the industry and leveraging their expertise. So you know, it's a definitely a new frontier. It's a lot different than my old role, which was at Black rock and fixed income etfs, I could have never imagined that, you know, equity Etfs would eventually look like this. But I think the market is starting to get bi.

I I know Eric Ba talks a lot about this. But on on the one end, you have low cost beta in fixed income and equities that is indexed, rebalancing usually annually. And then on the other end, you have these types of them dramatic products that, in a lot of ways are almost active, even if even if they do technically tracking an index. That leverage the expertise of people that really know what they're talking about. And I think Matt has proved himself as one of the foremost experts within the meta.

So we're really happy with the relationship we build with them, and I think the methodology that he's put in place and the team he had in place will really allowed this one to scale definitely to a billion and beyond.

Speaker 0: It's before I let Y ask another question, I'll just note my colleague, Rebecca, who's our Etf analyst here in Asia. She put out a report just before Facebook did the name changed to Meta. She talked about Meta Etfs getting two billion of assets by the end of twenty twenty one, and potentially eighty billion over the next several years and everyone thought the number was really high. And then we look at the flows that have come into these Etfs lately and it's like, we could hit eighty billion dollars next year potentially, like, you know, we're we already crossed two billion now, which was crazy to think about even two months ago, and at the rate that we're going, you know, who knows where this thing could go. And and so it has been, you know, quite crazy.

Speaker 2: So Mario, one of the things we like to talk about this and and and obviously, this is still a... Very much earlier early stage But the role of blockchain crypto decent centralization would love to get your very preliminary point of view on how does blockchain and crypto and decent play both into the wider meta evolution and what the actually mean for people, as well as what does it mean for the?

Speaker 1: Sure. So I'll I'll start with the Etf, and it's actually a very question because today are letter requesting inclusion of cryptocurrency products, into the meta Ct etf got published on the Sec website. So I I I can't comment beyond much of what what is in the letter. But what I will say is, they're a very integral part of the med. We requested Bitcoin and Ethereum which, you know, our our currently works in progress for us.

But I think what the blockchain can do for the med is to create a secure decentralized environment that will set the standard for for transactions within the meta. So I think it primarily has an economic benefit Since the meta is going to be synchronous and users from every country, will be able to collaborate simultaneously. There can't be traditional fees, and there can't be the traditional payments friction that we currently have with the current system with the current wire system with current even credit cards. People have faced high fees and slow settlement times with traditional payments for decades. And for everything to be instantaneous, we are going to need technology to facilitate instant payments and that is going to come from the blockchain.

I think the prime... Another benefit has to do with security since the blockchain is decentralized, each record is secured via its own crypto graphic algorithm and every participant on the blockchain needs to basically agree to all the previous transactions for a new one to go through. Unless you have a fifty one percent attack, which is a story for for another podcast. But since we, that is the process for validating and legit minimizing transactions, you're going to be able to facilitate mass commerce via these consensus algorithms. One of the debates is, will the med have a public or a private blockchain, I e with a private blockchain, a single organization has control over the network and can onboard participants, as they please, tie view a history of the ledger or to be able to make transactions themselves or a public blockchain, which is something like Bitcoin, where the entire public can view what is going on.

I I think that's the most important thing that is going to govern pay payments in the med is either the adoption of a public or a private blockchain. And if it is private, will it be one organization or a collective of organizations that control it? And I tend to favor the public, aspect of it because, if you're going to have a decentralized space, a lot of that means shu the current hierarchical models, that organizations use that currently. So I I I think that's from the standpoint of of the meta as a whole. And then, like I said for our fund, we are actively exploring adding cryptocurrency products into it because we we believe that blockchain tech, is going to be pivotal to the meta?

Speaker 0: I totally agree. I think that there's a lot of applications of blockchain and T's that resonate with... You know, I I like to think about it from the consumer perspective again. Right? You know, the reason that consumers want to interact in these spaces is this concept of, you know, expressing yourself with your avatar or digital self expression, is I like to call it.

You know, the the the avatar economy as He likes to call it. There's a lot of different ways to call it the same thing. But in in the real world, we express ourselves by wearing the clothes we're wearing or in this case, I'm wearing, you know, a sweatshirt, you know, because I'm lazy today. But, you know, people carry fancy bags. They wear watches.

Etcetera because they wanna, you know, have these items express who they are and, you know, paint a picture of themselves and in the virtual world with your Avatar, you wanna have the same ownership of your identity in the virtual space of your digital self. And and I think that demand... There's lots of ways to express that and lots of technologies to make that decision happen and to some extent for a lot of these platforms. It's a business decision in in a technology decision. It's not a...

You know, it it it it's not a religious decision. Like, some people like to make out the application of these technologies to be. But, you know, I I think that there's a role that these technologies can absolutely play. You know, when our Bloomberg Med index, we've included Coinbase, you know, we think Coinbase kind of will serve as you know, the Paypal of a lot of these technologies, you know, enabling, you know, mass consumer adoption of of of of payments through blockchain and N t's and crypto. And that's that's why Coinbase base is included in our index.

And, you know, I think you guys have a lot of payments exposure as well and your fund and You know, I think as as as the space develops, we'll see what other types of companies evolve. I mean, we've had a lot of conversations as well Y, and you said it in the first episode. The companies that are gonna dominate and lead the meta potentially don't exist today yet. You know, we look at companies like Roadblocks and Unity that are ahead of the pack today, but who knows what this space looks like in ten years. When the Internet was started, we didn't know what Facebook was.

And here we are today. And and so, you know, it's it's it's gonna be a crazy ride, and I'm excited for it.

Speaker 2: Yeah. You know, Amazon was born, I think, nineteen ninety six, Google nineteen ninety nine. Two thousand and five, Facebook. Right? Instagram.

What's up. Came later. Snapchat came later. I think the what's incredible and promising to me about the med is both as a user spectator, but also as a as a company builder in the space, I think what's most exciting is I believe the rate of change, the rate of innovation is going to continue and accelerate. And I think a lot of that is gonna be because of these fundamental technologies either decentralized or at the infrastructure level we'd what Is doing or at the platform level, and I think it's so refreshing to be building something new because think about these massive platforms like epic like roblox, and others like like Meta, they now need to think about how they reinvent themselves or has they how they are going to evolve into this new era, in a way, it's a much quote unquote simpler to just start fresh, start from scratch.

I would be kind of a bit provocative and say, I'm sure to some extent Mark Zuckerberg group had to think as a fee starting something from scratch to do the bold moves that he had to do because there's no other way to explain the rapid movement of a trillion dollar company almost. And even if it's less than a year of making this transformation of the company, in defining itself as a matter company first and then calling itself meta, you know, obviously very admirable cadence of execution. But... And and I go back to that point, Matthew that you've mentioned. Yes.

I believe a lot of the greatest in weakest companies in the med wider space ten fifteen years from now are... Either hasn't be... Haven't been born yet or being born now.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I I wanna talk first about, like, the N side of things because we talked a little bit about it before the podcast too and then On, like, the the the companies that may become leaders of of the meta. So, you know, in terms of N t's, the divide between digital collectible and N t's is not super clear for a lot of people, but I think there is an important difference. Digital collectible have been out there since the two thousands, I mean, even web based games like Neo pets, you could collect different items and buy items for for your avatar, and some of them were even unique to you. But it...

That that was never able to be done in a secure and identity based manner. And I think one of the things N entities have done, whether they're in a bubble or not, is allow people to attribute certain items to themselves and to provide a record to everyone else that that item is theirs and, you know, what they had paid for it and, a a lot of that... Those other details in in in the metadata. The economy for digital collectible, like, what Valve was doing with games like team fortress too or what they still are doing. Games like T two, Cs go is massive when they onboard, their in house economic minister, former economic minister of Greece, it was already doing a billion in turnover.

And I think that was in twenty thirteen. So digital collectible as a stand alone have grown significantly. And when you apply some of the things that N nxt do, like unique identity blockchain based transactions. The market as collectible are mapped to N entities is going to be massive. And I think that's where the real opportunity lies.

And what they also allow you to do is tackle that interoperability protocol of the of the meta. If you own skin and fortnite, you can't bring it to your character in you know, an Mmo, for example. But n entities will allow you to do that. It'll be a single item that has functionality in multiple different experiences. And I'm I'm I'm looking forward to see if companies emerge that tackle that solely or if that's the domain of, fang and tech giants that that try to take a stab at that interoperability standpoint.

And I think that's a good segue. The the second point of what Jan was making. Of a lot of companies that that will create the meta, not currently existing yet. I think there's a couple ways to look at this one is the largest companies have the capital to deploy to build the med risk. Mark Zuckerberg said, in no uncertain terms that operating expenses will increase throughout the whole decades starting at ten billion dollars in the current year.

Explicitly from meta investments, and that kind of earth some investors initially, but I think people have really come around to his vision and the amount of Honey that Facebook is going to be able to throw at this. Almost every large tech company, really Apple, Google, Microsoft has announced some form of meta strategy. But then on the other side of the coin, you have nimble organizations, and, you know, I wanna give a shout out to, Jan super social that are kind of coming out of nowhere and are building the ex experiences for the meta. You know, they might not be able to build the interchange stand standards and the piping that the meta will need, but they can definitely try to tackle that experience layer, which again is going to be both the outer most and the largest layer of the meta. So that's really, really important.

Speaker 2: I know I know we'll make it when we're gonna be on the f boom.

Speaker 1: Yeah. No. That'll be, I that'll be an awesome day for for for both of us. But, you know, this experience layer is is something that can either be tackled by very large organizations by small teams, again, like super social or by even individuals. Some of the top levels on roadblocks alone are created by single people who do the coding, the design, kind of everything by themselves.

And I think that is the part that is going to level the playing field and have normal people competing with the largest organizations in terms of shell shelf space on that experience layer. Yeah.

Speaker 0: I I I'd I'd I totally agree. You know, and as as we're getting close to, you know, wrapping up here. I I did wanna just give you one last chance to, you know, support some of the things you're working on, you mentioned the the crypto filings you have. We wanna ask any more questions there because that's pretty much all you can say, but anything else in the work at Round hill that our listeners should be watching out for. I think you guys are sitting on the ticker weed also.

If I'm not mistaken?

Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah. We're we're sitting on that ticker. There's a number of regulatory problems, a lot of them, public, for example, banks are refusing the custody those assets, even though there's almost at this point, bipartisan is in agreement that some bill is going to pass. So we're we're cautiously optimistic there, but we also have the ticker meme and we'll be launching a meme stock Etf in the next few weeks.

That Etf is going to be pretty interesting because unlike some current existing products, it's not only going to be based on sentiment, but we're also gonna have a short interest overlay. So trying, not only to target names that are being talked about on some of these forums, but also those that have high short interest and high potential to be squeezed and be even talked about more. And we'll be rebalancing that fund bi weekly to capture that opportunity. And longer term, we also have a couple other funds in the hopper, namely a digital payments, Etf and an e commerce Etf.

Speaker 0: Onwards and upwards for Round hill. Congrats to you and the team. You know, I know Will and. Will probably listen to this, and, you know, they're awesome guys. I remember when it was just, you know, the two of them, your team has grown you know, quite substantially in the last couple years with all these successful fun.

So it's it's really good to see. I still have my nerd. I still have my nerd hat from from the nice when we did the the bell ringing ceremony. That was the day before I got on the plane and moved to Hong Kong.

Speaker 2: I... Mario, Mario, I have a I have a pitch. You guys can think about it. My page is a Avatar G. Basically, any companies that is building the future of direct to Avatars.

Could be, accessories, items, fashion brand, sports. I think it's the next, you know, big frontier of human expression is gonna be Avatar in virtual worlds. I'm calling here for an Avatar Etf. I'm down to talk about it.

Speaker 1: No. I believe me, we're we're looking at an n nlp projects pretty actively. But really quick the last thing I wanna just touch on Jan, Thank you so much for mentioning it. But Avatars, Jensen Wang, in Nvidia last, earnings mentioned almost the entire call was on Nvidia software side. So the omni and their avatars.

And I think five years ago, no one could imagine that the software side for nvidia was gonna be just as important as their hardware side between data center and gaming Gpus. But these avatars, at least according to Jensen, in five years will be present everywhere. Airports, retail stores, coffee shops, kind of everywhere where you can imagine. And they'll be able to have a customizable identity, and we'll be able to do a lot of tasks that will help facilitate brick and mortar commerce greatly. And that's the...

One of the key parts where we say that the meta will bridge both the physical and the virtual worlds is stuff like that, whether it's an alternate reality or whether this is an avatar that is, you know, physically constructed. That's one of the most exciting opportunities, and that's a large part of the reason why Nvidia has such a high weighting in the index in the fund.

Speaker 0: That's awesome. And, you know, it's it... The meta is no virtual reality. It's emerging. It's it's burg today as we've said, it'll take time.

But this has been an awesome discussion. It's been great having you on. That's Mario Stefan, the Vp of Research from Round hill. This has been another awesome episode of into the meta.