
Speaker 0: The meta emerging as the next big technology platform, attracting online game makers social networks and plenty of investment. And share there's lots of hype surrounding the meta, but there's also lots of substance, development and exciting trends. On this podcast series into the meta brought to you by Bloomberg Intelligence. We will break down the biggest development and bring on the most interesting minds who are building, investing in and experiencing the.

Speaker 1: Hi everyone. This is Jan founder and Ceo of Super Social, and Whitney me Matthew Can, my c host for this amazing podcast into the med. We are kicking off on twenty twenty two. And what a kickoff for the year it is? We have so many things, interesting things to share with you.

First, I'd like to start with twenty twenty one as being a defining year for the med as we've covered in our last episode of twenty twenty one. We talk about two defining moments for the in twenty twenty one. The first one is Roblox becoming a publicly traded company, and the second one is Facebook changing their corporate brand name to Meta. But once again, just for our listeners, we wanna circle back on this very important question. What is the med and what it is not to make sure that we're all starting from the same place in twenty twenty two.

And as we covered a lot during twenty twenty one in this forecast, the meta is not a device. You've probably have heard me and Matthew talk about this a lot. You've probably have seen us tweeting about it. The meta is not a device. It's not something you're going to access from your mobile phone.

It's not something you're going to access from a Vr Go or Ar glasses or from a autonomous vehicle by tesla or someone else. The is The next iteration of the Internet, we have all been inspired by thought leaders like Team Sweeney, and Dave Ba suzuki and Matthew Ball, all of whom have been talking about the med for the past few years. And finally, the rest of the world is picking up and joining the evolution of the Internet. And we believe that the meta is really going to be these real time three d persistent, large scale virtual worlds and environments where people are going to spend enormous amount of time doing so many things like playing and working and learning and entertaining, and doing things that we always thought we're only doing any real life. And so We're very excited about that evolution and especially in a world of remote and distributed not just work, but distributed life.

We feel that this decade is going to be phenomenal in terms of what's being built and how we are going to manifest our lives and our identities through these little avatars that are roaming all sorts of virtual world. Some of them are centralized and some of them are decentralized, and we're gonna talk a lot about that as well in twenty twenty two. So, Matthew. Great to start the year with you excited to kick off on an amazing new year for the podcast, gop for it.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. It's been quite an exciting twenty twenty one, and I think there's a lot of exciting things for twenty twenty two. There's also a lot of things. I'm actually cautious about in twenty twenty two, and and we'll get into that in terms of every technology platform development goes through the, quote unquote, twenty hype cycle, Ga is famous for laying this out. You get the big wave of excitement that's usually far too early.

Everyone comes rushing into the gates, then we realize that we've got a long way to go and you get to what they call the trough of dis. And then once we hit that trough, and we've kind of reset expectations, that's when we really start building to the future. I mean, just think about... Smartphones and being able to have a computer in your pocket. You know, that was pictured and rumored for decades before it became a reality.

And so as exciting as this is as interesting as it is as we believe that this is the next platform. This is not the next platform tomorrow. This is the next platform for a decade or more, and it's really important to stay grounded. And so I I do want to kind of, you know, as much as I'm excited, I'm also trying to temper expectations because of all of the great things that happened in twenty twenty one, have shifted expectations and excitement from feeling like we're talking into an echo chamber and trying to get people to listen us that the meta is important. To now trying to walk people back and level set expectations.

It is quite a different tone for me. I think. It's also... I'm looking at the the long view and and playing the long game, and and I think a lot of people need to shift their focus and and stay aligned to where we're going.

Speaker 1: I love. And I agree with you, and I think in a way, almost like twenty twenty one was the year that the meta has arrived as a concept, something that everyone now recognize recognized that is going to be an important part of our future. Now twenty twenty two and beyond is going to be a journey of really realizing and manifesting our desires for what the meta could be, and it's going to be a journey. So I think for our audience listen and carefully to what Matthew just said, it's not going to be a sprint. It's going to be a long marathon, but we definitely wanna have many, many sprints during that marathon, and it's going to be quite natural to assume that there's going to be up and downs in terms of what the meta sees what it's evolving.

There's gonna be a lot of great innovation. There's gonna be a bunch of disappointment. But ultimately, to Matthew's this point I agree with you. It's a journey, and we should all kind of buckle up because it's going to be fun.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And some of the fun that just came out, you know, we're right in the heart of Yes, the consumer Electronic show. I didn't go this year. It's now been two years since I've gone in person. That was the last trip I ever took before the pandemic with Ces twenty twenty.

It's usually quite an event, but Nvidia always announces a lot of great things and We've talked a lot about Nvidia on this podcast as a meta leader with their Omni strategy. They did make a lot of interesting announcements about their Omni platform. I think the most important thing that came out of it is they're really positioning themselves to be a key player in the underlying software stack of the meta and opening up the omni versus as a free software suite to creators, to three d developers, three d designers, think that's really gonna help them take the next step to really put themselves alongside epic games an unreal engine, unity, roblox, as an alternative, you know, especially as you think about how ingrained they are with gamers with game developers, and also with how green they are now with streamers and creators, you know, and and and people going after that creator economy. I really think that what they're doing is gonna put them in a really strong position to be one of those key software stack players going forward. And I'm always a fan of open software and opening up your platform and letting creative people just have fun, and I think they're doing this the perfectly right way right here.

Speaker 1: Yes. And, you know, I think that you touched on a really great point in terms of opening platform, I think, you know, Team Sweeney has obviously being very vocal about the fact that for the universe to really emerge and be realized, it cannot be a similar evolution like what happened with, you know, social media and social platform in the past decade, which every platform has its own ecosystem, and it's a close chamber, and it doesn't connect with one another. I think in the med, everyone has a vision, which I think aligns with what Team Sweeney has been proposing, which is a connectivity and interoperability across platform. And I think he takes on a really interesting point of view where for the meta to really become and realize its potential from a total addressable market in the trillions, we're really gonna have to have these platforms, these different environments if it's Facebook and meta and roblox and epic, and unity, and what happens on blockchain for all of these things to connect together. You know, I think both of us, matthew you share that vision for the world.

And... But it will be a journey to see how that actually happens because a lot of these platforms have been building their own echo chambers and they're very comfortable. They're doing well. I mean, if you look at roblox, they're doing extremely well. But I can tell you also as a developer of experiences for the, I am very much excited in bullish on the world that he's much more collaborative and open.

Together, you know, there is the saying. If you wanna go fast go alone. You're go you want to go far, go together. I think if we go together, the meta has a much greater potential for human elevation than any one platform can provide any own.

Speaker 0: I totally agree, And I I think this is also really important time to make that claim and make the... In and get this out there. Because at the same time, we clearly have other companies that are that have existing social platforms like Facebook Meta platforms and they're trying to, you know, push their vision of the meta as a closed system and try to retain their walled gardens or their or their content fortresses and and and keep people within an ecosystem. And I think it's really important for consumers for developers for investors to think about where we've come with these walled gardens and what done to the Internet economy and the second iteration, The Web two iteration? And for web three, do we really want more of the same do we want this vision of these walled gardens?

I mean, yes, It's insanely profitable if you become the Walled garden, but is is that really what we want, you know, the Internet to look like or do we want... You know, I'm I'm a I'm a proponent as well of the open connectivity of of the Internet and really, you know, enabling the creators, and I really think you know, I... And it goes back to what we talked about with yeast in our episode a few a few episodes ago, several episodes ago now is that consumers vote with their feet and they go where the fun is. And I think that consumers are are getting fed up with Walled gardens and they're getting fed up with, you know, networks that force the content to them. And I think the meta and user generated content in in all of these technologies that are really coming together is is giving them a new way to express themselves in a new way for them to not only find content, but create and engage with things they want to.

And I and I think that that's gonna by nature that that will force us kinda activity and it will help break down these walled gardens. And at least that's my hope because, you know, I I I I think that's what we need in the next iteration of the Internet to make it you know, just a better place to be.

Speaker 1: And I think that, ultimately, with the evolution of the Internet, and we're talking about the med. It's also about human expression. And human connection. Right? When we think about the meta, when we talk about three d real time, massive, large scale environments, we're we're talking about manifesting ourselves, our personalities, our aspirations from the length of an Nav avatar.

And we... As we talked about a lot in in last year, Matthew, we can each have as people in real life, we can have multiple identities and avatars in the med. And and I think putting those avatars in a place where they can represent our aspirations, our creativity if it's playing a game, watching a concert, going to a movie, having a date night, collaborating on a piece of work. All of those things are going to be way more powerful with platform that can connect to one another. And so, you know, I'm very happy to for both of us to continue and be proponents of of that open meta, very much in line with...

With really what a lot of amazing people, entrepreneurs builders are envisioning as well. And I think this is a future where people will be able to get so much more out of the Internet and the med in the future than than today.

Speaker 0: I'm excited also for, you know, I I was alluding to it, but, you know, for the human connectivity is hugely important, You know, who knows when the world will be back to, you know, a quote, unquote, normal. You know, I'm in Hong Kong. And today, we're just going back into lockdown, you know, two years into this for us. And so, you know, who knows when the the normalcy sea will return and, you know, as we're all looking for ways to interact with with the others remotely digitally. The meta is a really interesting concept to enable these connections wherever we are.

But it also doesn't have to be in a screen. It can also be physical real world and, you know, aided and and and enabled by real time three. So... And I think that's all so super promising, particularly as we tie in the creator economy, you know, how how can we make physical concerts. We talked a lot about virtual make physical concerts more engaging, how all these streamers, You know, how can they better engage with with their followers on Twitch with their followers on Youtube and create more engaging class forms for themselves to really, yes, monetize their brand, but, you know, build connections more deeply.

I think, you know, something that Craig Don from Roblox talked about with the virtual concerts, but I think it's applicable to, you know, so many different things out there is every seat becomes a Vip ticket. I think that's a hugely important concept when you're thinking about human connection because you're not just sitting a hundred rows deep in an arena now. You're now... You can be face to face or Avatar to Avatar with with a celebrity with someone that you care about someone that you want to be close with and learn more from. And so I I think that the the ability to create these connections, but really personal connections, much more so than we can today through the computer I think that that's really gonna be a huge driver for consumer demand, you know, bringing people in, bringing people together, and then you start talking about the business opportunities on top of that.

I think they become quite large. You know, we saw it. I mentioned Ces, you know, the the consumer technology association did a a presentation, and it was focused more on the enterprise app locations of the meta versus, the Xr strategy, you know, I think there's a lot of crossover now in terms of the use of the terms, you know, Xr mixed reality and in the meta. But I but I do think that, you know, a lot of what they're seeing as well. It it all it all ties back to how can companies brands better connect with consumers and they do in the current world.

Yes. If you can get someone in a store, you can connect with them. But an e commerce site, social media isn't a very deep personal connection. And so how can you improve that connection to make it more like the real world, and I think the meta versus the perfect solution for that.

Speaker 1: Matthew, I wanna echo what what you just said, which is so fundamental. I believe, You know, we started the year January first. I wrote my annual kind of New year's Ceo letter. And the one thing I was trying to portray there was what I referred to as a meaningful universe. And what I described as a meaningful meta is a place where we can power creativity, foster inc and drive prosperity.

And I think what these three things mean really is number one creativity, we want to enable people to express themselves to be part of things that engage that excite that inspire. When we talk about inc exclusivity, we want the universe to be a place where everyone can feel belonging. We need to use the universe and this incredible platform to create sense of the belonging and a sense of community, especially as you've described, a world where we are continuously continuing to be remote and apart from one another in real life, this is an opportunity to bring people together and bridge gaps and bring different cultures together. There has never been a better time. And then the third piece about driving prosperity.

This is also an enormous opportunity, which we're already tapping into with a new generation of creators. As you know it's super social. We're so excited about working and partnering and building together with a new rising creator generation. This is an opportunity now that everyone is remote. To really sharpen your skill set, decide what do you wanna create what movement you wanna be part of?

It could be building on roblox? It could be creating an n fee and so and and so on and so forth and and really put your talent to work. There's never been a better time to do remotely what you dream of creating. And and those three thing really for me kind of encapsulate what the meta could be as a meaningful environment.

Speaker 0: So you can clearly tell we're not excited at all about this. No. No. I'm kidding. We're we're both extremely excited, and there's there's good reason for it, but as I alluded to in the beginning of the conversation, we are in the middle of the hype cycle, and I'm just pulling up some data on my Bloomberg terminal, using the transcript analysis function for Bloomberg professional subscribers that's Ta go.

To search the term meta, you can see that in the third quarter earning season, it's actually more than when I checked at Last because there's more transcripts added. The term meta was used seven hundred and thirteen times. This includes filings, this includes transcripts. This includes conferences everything. Seven hundred and thirteen times.

That compares to a hundred times the prior... In the prior quarter. In the year ago quarter, it was mentioned a whopping four times. So we've gone up quite a lot. There's a lot of people talking about this.

There's everyone is throwing their hat in the ring, which is super citing. I saw a demo from Walmart about how they envision, you know, shopping in the med and having, you know, virtual assistance. You pick out food. Here's a wine pairing we can suggest. I think there's lots of cool applications of this in the future, but it's entirely evident that there's companies jumping on the bandwagon, throwing out the term.

Heck. I even have had conversations with... You know, we launched our, our our Bloomberg intelligence, meta versus theme basket and we're we're we're talking with fun issuers to create Etfs based on an index that tracks the basket. And, you know, many of them are just, like, look, retail just wants the hype. They just wanna ride the train right now.

I mean, no no one is no one is shy about talking about that we are in the hype cycle, and they wanna ride it. And companies are doing the thing that they think is best for their shareholders. They are trying to talk up prospects and and make themselves attractive investments. I get it, and I get the game. But it's clear that for some of these companies, sure, there's going to be real substance under the hood.

But for some, you know that it's vapor. You know that it's Are these companies gonna be driving the development of the meta because again, this is something that doesn't exist yet? This is something that we're building to and is are these companies the ones gonna be doing it? I think companies like Facebook Meta platforms? I mean, before they change their name before Zuckerberg went all in?

I think we talked about how they had a really promising set of assets in place and could be a significant player in this space, and they came out and said they're gonna spend ten billion dollars a year investing in So I think clearly, they are putting their money where their mouth is. That's a lot of money. That's way more money than than most companies combined are investing in the med right now. The question becomes... Well, they be successful.

I I don't think there's any certainty they will be. But there's lots of other companies out there, and I I won't name names to save face for some of these companies. But you know, there there's clearly names that show up on this list of companies that are talking about the meta and trying to hype it up, where you question it. And and you say, does that make sense we were actually looking at some other indices, some other meta indices that are being used by Etfs and, you know, a couple companies pop up in those Etfs and you're just like, Does Ibm? Are they really gonna be a key player in the meta?

Is that is that a company you think it's gonna be driving this development of this form. I mean, they could. They they they could. But, you know, there there's names that pop up, There's names that are people that are throwing their hat in the ring. And I think it's important for investors for consumers to don't fall for the hype.

Don't fall for the vapor, be att to what's going on and really look through the hype cycle to where the real substances is.

Speaker 1: Well said, Matthew, And I I would just add that I think it's important to focus on the fundamentals and really learn from first sources understand what the meta is really about? What is the journey of realizing the med, learn about the companies, go and actually spend time already things that exist. You wanna learn about the managers, go play a game on roblox. Go jump between experiences, go into Fortnite go to blockchain and and sometime time on the central end and Sandbox. Immerse yourself in these worlds, open a wallet, open a...

Create your own Avatar on on a on a Saturday afternoon, like, really start yourself with some of this platform that already exist, which are proponents of the med and in kind of the lead into realizing the med. And then when you think about publicly traded companies, you, I think it's important again to not only look at the data, but also try and unpack the buzz words. Sure. Everyone is now talking about the universe. Matthew, I think the numbers you've mentioned clearly articulate that now the meta is basically a word that everyone is now talking about.

And that's cool. That's awesome. I'm also excited about when the meta excitement will decrease the beat. So we can really go back to fundamentals, look at who the real builders who are the people that are going to overcome the phase of this solution to use your ga analogy and continue to build while everyone is moving to the next buzz Again, I think I've mentioned last year, everyone remembers Solo. Remember, social, local mobile, great concept, back then when, you know, Facebook just started in in the and the iphone was launched early twenty tens.

I very much hope and would like to believe and and that the meta is not gonna be one of those turns that dissipate into the obese, and I am confident that it it will not because I think the meta side of the technical changes that it provides. It's also a paradigm shift of human behavior. That's why I encourage everyone to go and experiment and play and do things because the universe is about technology as much as it is about human, about human behavior and human expression, and I think it's important. To always remember, ultimately, they're gonna be people behind those application. There's gonna be people who use consumer applications.

There's gonna be people who use enterprise applications, the meta is gonna touch all of those different industries. And so for each of you are audiences individuals, want to really ask yourself, how is the matter going to touch your life? Personally, professionally, creatively. These are the type of question that we believe can help you better understand the med today and where it is going.

Speaker 0: What's the age old saying technology, dis points in the near term and usually outperform our wildest streams in the long term. And I think I think the meta will we'll probably fall into that category. I think a lot of people see this potentially, for some some visions of the meta, I think are actually quite dystopian and scary. You know, if if you do believe that it has to be inside of a Vr headset. I actually think that that sounds not fun at all.

That that sounds quite dystopian and if that's the case, you know, I'm not looking forward to that that vision of the meta. You know. I know, we don't agree on that, but they're are definitely companies and and people out there that that have that vision. And I am excited in the long run. But, you know, one of the other things that I think it ties into the hype.

And we've talked about this at length on the podcast. We've gone in... With Ryan Gill from crucible about N t's and blockchain in the meta and centralized platforms. I think it's clear that there's also a lot of hype and a lot of things built into this this segment of technology of development of it is financed to a degree that is quite not sustainable there's a lot of things that are interesting and exciting and how these technologies tie into the meta for sure. And I think in the end, there will be some part potentially, if not all of the meta will have some of these characteristics built into it, who knows it's still way too far away to actually know.

But You know, I I think there's there's so much demand for ownership of digital identities and digital self that whether it's the tenants, the principles or the actual technologies will make their way into the meta at some point. But Y, you you recently shared some thoughts on on the virtual land sales that are going on, You know, I think there's been a lot of hype around those recently and and how that ties into the meta just thought maybe be a good opportunity for you to share your thoughts what you're seeing there. What's exciting around these, you know, these land sales, but also why you think it also begs cost and in terms of the hype cycle?

Speaker 1: Look, when we talk about the meta as real time three d large scale persistent environments that are happening on the Internet, with that obviously come the realization that they're going to be these virtual spaces that are valuable where people build different experiences. And that means that just, like, real estate in real life, they're going to be spaces lots. Right virtual lens that are going to be valuable. And just like in real estate in real life, it's all about location, location location. And so you can imagine that as these meta environments and virtual worlds come to life.

People are already flock like a gold rush to purchase virtual lens in different platforms. And And I don't think it's necessarily about the platform. It's not about the central and Sandbox roblox. I think the point I want to make is a bit more general, which is Yes. Is it exciting?

Does it make economic sense to invest in virtual lens in the future? Absolutely. If we're gonna leave in the med in the form of avatars and we're gonna jump around between different places. There's going to be a meta downtown. There's going to be meta cinema.

There's going to be all sorts of meta environment and experiences where the land and the value of the land will increase. Having said that, because we're in such an early stage of the meta, and it is yet unclear which platform exactly are going to be the most relevant. The most attractive. I think he bears a bit of caution when people think about Oh, my God. I'm missing on an opportunity to go and spend and buy virtual lands on on a...

In in those different environments that are running on blockchain, and I own these assets and it's going to be worth a lot. Yes, you might come across a few virtual opportunities where the land will be worth a lot of money. But at the moment, we are still working. And when when I say we, I mean, the builders, the platform, the creators were all just trying to build things that ultimately people are actually going to want to engage with and come back. And just like in real life, if you buy a piece of real estate in a neighborhood where no one comes to the neighborhood Your real estate is not gonna be worth a lot of money and you know that.

But if you're gonna buy a piece of real estate in Soho, New York, then you've obviously made a great purchase decision. The issue is that so New York hasn't been built yet in the med, and we don't know exactly the length of time it's going to happen. And so just be cautious out there when you purchase virtual lens, don't necessarily feel like, oh my god, you're putting your money in into the right place and be very deter about it. So we kind of wanna propose caution. It's unclear yet which platforms are gonna be the winners.

It's unclear what exactly are the type of experiences that people are gonna want to come back again and again too. And so therefore, make sure you're being cautious with now. You spend about these virtual lands and understand that we are in the very, very, very early stages of that.

Speaker 0: I think the flip side to that, If you if you wanna take the positive view is that it's early, it's Nascent, it's not bill. So if you're coming in and buying land in a virtual world, you have the opportunity to have the entire plan the entire city plan of how do you make your land soho. How do you make it the the the hip, the hot area. And and so, you know, if you come into it with a plan already in place, how you think this can really become interesting in a place for people where they want to hang out and socialize virtually. That can help you stand out ahead and really make that a worthwhile investment.

And so I I totally agree. I think there's a lot of things out there right now. I think it's just the state of where we are in the financial markets. You know, there's a lot of greed in the market, and and I think N nxt in crypto as a whole is is definitely reflecting that to various degrees and, you know, clearly you wanna be cautious when it comes to that. But if you have a real plan, if you if you really can think about this ahead of time, and not just come into it with financial motivations, but really start building.

I think there's a lot of ways that you can turn that into something really promising down the road. And just, you know, we're tying this in today, you know, because it's it's something that our listeners obviously care a lot about, but we also saw that open c the the N marketplace just raised quite a lot of money. I believe the the they're they're raising three hundred million dollars at a evaluation of thirteen point three billion dollars according to tech crunch here. That's quite a lot of money, a Series c financing round led by paradigm in c two. I mean, I don't I don't even know what to say.

They've You know, they've... They... They've done quite a lot of volume. I mean, you you have to give them tons of credit for what they've built so quickly. In the last thirty days, they've done about two point nine billion dollars of of volume of of n t's according to Da radar.

If you annual analyze out that's thirty five billion dollars on an annual basis. So so clearly, they're doing lots of that... Lots of transaction volume, lots of interesting things. But obviously, Y, I think, you know, we were chatting before we started recording clearly with a with a valuation that that large. There's more at play than just being an N nxt market place.

And I think what we've talked about in the past and how crypto assets N t's digital identity plays into the meta think that's gonna be a big part of them being able to grow into that valuation.

Speaker 1: The important thing here for me is that first of all congratulations to the open team, what an incredible journey and execution, jumping from one point five billion private valuation to thirteen and a half billion extraordinary. As a as a founder and an entrepreneur, I salute the team and, you know, well down guys. In terms of what it means, look, I think companies like Coinbase based, like Open and others there's going to be a real a real fight on who is going to have the most important direct relationship with users as we embrace open meta and decent centralization. And really, the question is, what is going to be the key gateway into the. And and I think that's why I believe you see these level of investments.

I think that's why you see these valuations. Having said that, opens is a young company, and I I am certain that at least in the near term, they will continue and focus on their core business as a marketplace. It takes a long time to build a great business and it's important for them most likely to continue and focus on on that marketplace piece, especially as we know, Coinbase base have have launched in sort of limited access their own N marketplace. Are now starting to see other more niche marketplaces of N entities like fractal for gaming N entities. So I think this whole N entities marketplace piece is is exploding.

Ultimately, the bigger question is gonna be how are we going to access the matter, What's gonna be the key gateway? And I think there's dozens of dozens of platforms at the moment? That are trying to tackle it from different places. You know, we talked about forte and mythical last year. It's going to be really interesting to see who are the two or three market leaders when it comes to identity in the med.

When we talk about open platforms. And then most importantly, I am still, you know, the question mark that we talked about earlier today at what point of time, these open environments and and and sort of meta identities on blockchain connect with some of the closed platforms like Roblox. That's a big Tb and and meta as well. That's a big Tb. Which I am very curious to see how it plays that.

Speaker 0: Absolutely. And and the and the last thing I wanted to discuss so we can wrap up today today's episode is You know, again, it's something that we talked about with yeast and it always comes back to me because I think I totally lost sight of this for a while thinking about opportunities, businesses, you know, revenue, all these different things that you can see happening, and you can lose sight of the fund. And I think that we can't do that. Because if we lose sight of fun, we end up with what we have. And I don't really know if there's a good way to avoid this.

But for people out there that are building these experiences for investors looking out there, take a step back for a second, go in and play roblox, go in and actually experience these things and just figure out if they're fun. Because if you're not having fun with it, And maybe it's not your demo. Ask your kids to go do it? Because if it's if it's if it's roadblocks or something that's, you know, for a younger audience, have them go in. If they're not having fun, is this really gonna be sustainable, it could be a great business model, but it's gotta be fun.

Speaker 1: A hundred percent agree Matthew and to take a a phrase from last year's episode with Ryan Gill, the meta in a way is the Internet build by game developers. And if we think about it from that point of view, really we are at a stage where a lot of the meta experiences that we're gonna see over the next couple of years, I believe will still relate to game worlds, game experiences play experiences overall. And I think that will really open up possibilities for other industries and gaming has always been at the forefront of technology. So it's also not gonna be a surprise at all if the next eighteen twenty four, maybe even more month we'll still be focused on meta experiences in the form of game worlds and play experiences.

Speaker 0: Totally agree. So with that, we'll wrap up. We've got you a short little episode today. We'll be back in our next episode, we'll go much deeper into N t's, blockchain, inside of virtual game worlds and how those experiences can elevate the meta. So stay tuned for more great content and have a great twenty twenty two.